Skip to main content area
Home
Login | Register
About us | Working with us | Contact us -AA+A

Find us on Facebook (link opens in a new tab/window)  Follow us on Twitter (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our YouTube Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our Flickr Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)
Search this site: Search 
Search
 
HomeFind a walkWhy walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Volunteer with usHealth & social care professionalsRunning health walks
Setting up health walks
News
GDPR: information and guidance
News
Why walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Healthy bodies
Healthy minds
Meet new people
Preventing illness
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Healthy minds
Image of walkers in an autumnal scene
A good walk can do wonders for your mental wellbeing.
But it's not just about the occasional one-off feel good factor. Being active has a whole range of benefits when it comes to mental wellbeing.

It improves self-perception and self-esteem, mood and sleep quality, and it reduces stress, anxiety and fatigue. Physically active people have up to a 30% reduced risk of becoming depressed, and staying active helps those who are depressed recover.

In older people, staying active can improve cognitive function, memory, attention and processing speed, and reduce the risk of cognitive decline and dementia.
"Walking has always been there for me, my confidence has grown immensely. I'm a totally different person now than I was ten years ago and I owe so much of that to walking."
Kath, walker with bipolar disorder

The physical improvements you gain by walking can help to improve your mental health too. If you feel fitter and feel in control of your weight, your body image and confidence can increase - so it's not just the physical benefits that you'll notice when you start walking.

Walk regularly. Invest in your long-term health now and you’ll see the difference that walking can make to your mind, your body and your social life. Walking in a group is a great way to get started and stay motivated, so find your local Walking for Health scheme and join us today. 
>>Visit Mind's website for more information about physical activity and mental health
 
 

Find a local health walk scheme today...
Search within  
of  
Enter a postcode or placename
Latest tweets from @healthywalks
Were you out walking this weekend? ????? If you didn’t get the chance, why not join a short group walk this week?… https://t.co/sgDxTQ9ZbK — 4 hours 51 min ago
People start walking for different reasons, and experience all kinds of physical, mental and social benefits as a r… https://t.co/4UQ5DD4Spk — 4 days 3 hours ago
RT @RamblersGB: Margot and her son Thomas, joined the Stepping Out Carers’ Walks in Kent. Read about how attending these sociable… https://t.co/IAT7t9YSmO — 5 days 2 hours ago
follow Walking for Health on Twitter »
About us
Contact us
News
WalkFinder
Running health walks
Training
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Cookies
