Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > What you can do > Cycle and walk to work > Up for the challenge? Change the way your staff commute to work

What you can do
Up for the challenge? Change the way your staff commute to work
Commuting to work with friends is a fun and social way to start the day
Commuting to work with friends is a fun and social way to start the day

people cycling to work
Being a cycle-friendly employer can improve employee wellbeing, retention and motivation

1
2
A little bit of healthy competition goes a long way and that’s definitely proved the case for our online challenges this year.

How do the challenges work?
We put participating workplaces in competition with one another to see who can carry out the highest number of sustainable journeys to work. Challenges vary in length from two to eight weeks.

They then log these on our dedicated challenge websites and the workplace with the highest percentage of participating staff members is crowned champion.

Throughout the challenge we offer lots of incentives and competitions along the way. Our much sought-after grand prizes encourage everyone to log as many sustainable journeys as they can. In our Legal Sustainability Alliance challenge this year there’s even a pair of Eurostar tickets to Paris up for grabs!

Changing the way you commute
It’s not all about winning though. By running challenges we hope that it will encourage more people to change the way they commute to work. Taking part in a challenge makes this change that little bit easier and a lot more fun.

Whether it’s a shorter, two mile trip or a colossal commute both count for the same sustainable journey in a challenge. They all make a difference to the environment and improve our health.

The results are in
People have been ditching the car keys and getting stuck into challenges from all over Scotland, England, Wales and Northern Ireland, and the results have been fantastic.

Our West of England challenge, run in partnership with TravelWest, is a perfect example. In the six weeks that the challenge ran we got an amazing 160 workplaces and 3,430 people taking part.

Together they managed to clock up an enormous 71,928 journeys, burning over 12 million calories and saving over 60,000kg of CO2. Not bad, I think you’ll agree!

People loved making the switch and finding out that the journey is just as important as the destination:

“Rather than take the car from the office last Friday I took the yellow ferry boat from outside the office window to the hippodrome and walked the rest. What a pleasant way to travel and I still arrived in the same time as the car would have taken to get there!”

Want to encourage active travel in your workplace? Take a look at our list of ideas to change the way your staff commute
Read about the benefits of being a cycle-friendly employer

Categories: CommutingCyclingCycling in citiesWalkingWorkplaces
Location: UK-wide
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 
Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)