Skip to main content area
Home
Login | Register
About us | Working with us | Contact us -AA+A

Find us on Facebook (link opens in a new tab/window)  Follow us on Twitter (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our YouTube Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our Flickr Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)
Search this site: Search 
Search
 
HomeFind a walkWhy walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Volunteer with usHealth & social care professionalsRunning health walks
Setting up health walks
News
GDPR: information and guidance
News
Why walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Healthy bodies
Healthy minds
Meet new people
Preventing illness
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Preventing illness


Being physically active significantly reduces the risk of several major health conditions by between 20% and 60%, including heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, colon and breast cancer and Alzheimer’s disease. It also helps you maintain a healthy weight, improves cholesterol levels, reduces blood pressure, builds healthy muscles and bones, improves balance and reduces the risk of falls.

Want to know more? Take a look at our Walking Works report!

Brisk walking
Regular brisk walking improves the performance of your heart, lungs and circulation. It can also lower your blood pressure. And it can reduce your risk of strokes, as well as the UK's biggest killer - heart disease. 
A gentle pace
Even if you're not ready to walk at a brisk pace, you can take your time and build up slowly. Walking at any pace will help you to manage your weight, reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes and reduce the risk of some cancers (inactive people are more likely to develop colon, breast and lung cancer than those who exercise). 
 
Walking will improve the flexibility and strength of your joints, muscles and bones too - and it'll reduce the risk of osteoporosis. 
 
We don't always think of walking as exercise - perhaps because it's so normal that we take it for granted. But walking is a great way to get active and prevent illness.
 
So if you want to get started, why not find your local health walk and join today?
 

Find a local health walk scheme today...
Search within  
of  
Enter a postcode or placename
Latest tweets from @healthywalks
Were you out walking this weekend? ????? If you didn’t get the chance, why not join a short group walk this week?… https://t.co/sgDxTQ9ZbK — 5 hours 7 min ago
People start walking for different reasons, and experience all kinds of physical, mental and social benefits as a r… https://t.co/4UQ5DD4Spk — 4 days 4 hours ago
RT @RamblersGB: Margot and her son Thomas, joined the Stepping Out Carers’ Walks in Kent. Read about how attending these sociable… https://t.co/IAT7t9YSmO — 5 days 2 hours ago
follow Walking for Health on Twitter »
About us
Contact us
News
WalkFinder
Running health walks
Training
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Cookies
