Skip to main content area
Home
Login | Register
About us | Working with us | Contact us -AA+A

Find us on Facebook (link opens in a new tab/window)  Follow us on Twitter (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our YouTube Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our Flickr Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)
Search this site: Search 
Search
 
HomeFind a walkWhy walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Volunteer with usHealth & social care professionalsRunning health walks
Setting up health walks
News
GDPR: information and guidance
News
Why walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Walking with health conditions
Walking and cancer
Walking and heart disease
Walking and diabetes
Walking and asthma
Walking and dementia
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Walking and cancer



Produced by Macmillan Cancer Support on behalf of Walking for Health

Following a cancer diagnosis, getting more active can make a positive change to your life.  Walking is safe both during and after most types of cancer treatment. It has lots of benefits including strengthening your bones and heart, reducing body fat, improving mental health, and reducing lymphedema and fatigue.

Reducing the amount of time spent resting or sitting can help prevent blood clots, reduce muscle wasting and improve your mood. So you could start by taking short walks with regular breaks, always walking at your own pace and listening to your body. Then increase gradually over time, setting achievable goals to help you take back control.

"Cheryl, my walk leader, encouraged me to walk which greatly improved my mind-set and fitness when I was recovering from cancer."
Catherine, Walking for Health participant

Any amount of movement can be beneficial, but if you have any concerns about Walking for Health being safe for you, please speak to your doctor or nurse before joining a walk.
 
Lots of people tell us getting active helps them feel like their old self and walking groups are a great way to meet others. So whether you're being treated for cancer or you're recovering, why not find a health walk near you and join today?

For more information on the benefits of physical activity during and after cancer treatment, click here. 

To hear how walking helped Gwenda after she was diagnosed with bladder cancer, read her story here. 


Find a local health walk scheme today...
Search within  
of  
Enter a postcode or placename
Latest tweets from @healthywalks
Were you out walking this weekend? ????? If you didn’t get the chance, why not join a short group walk this week?… https://t.co/sgDxTQ9ZbK — 5 hours 31 min ago
People start walking for different reasons, and experience all kinds of physical, mental and social benefits as a r… https://t.co/4UQ5DD4Spk — 4 days 4 hours ago
RT @RamblersGB: Margot and her son Thomas, joined the Stepping Out Carers’ Walks in Kent. Read about how attending these sociable… https://t.co/IAT7t9YSmO — 5 days 2 hours ago
follow Walking for Health on Twitter »
About us
Contact us
News
WalkFinder
Running health walks
Training
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Cookies
