
Birmingham City Council    
Search this site

Find information, advice and more…
Search
Is your child due to start Year 7 in September 2019?
Closing date for Year 7 admissions for September 2019 is midnight 31 October 2018. Applying online means you get your decision by email on offer day, so there's no need to wait for the post. Apply online
You are here:
Home  Roads, travel and parking  Road safety  Young active travel initiative
Young active travel initiative
In this section
You are here:Young active travel initiative
Modeshift STARS
Young active travel - Trust and Grants
Walking
Cycling
Public transport
Road safety
Young active travel initiative
Ferrying children around can be a real challenge for parents and carers. Taking the car can sometimes feel like the most convenient option.

However, encouraging children to walk, cycle or use public transport has many benefits for health, wellbeing and the environment.

There are a number of ways that children and young people can get around more actively; walking and cycling is just the start. Even a bus journey that includes a walk to and from the bus stop is beneficial.

Incorporating active travel into young people’s lives can be a relatively easy way to fit activity into their day to help them (and their parents or carers) stay fit. Not every journey has to be made using active travel, but often a good place to start is the school run: even walking once or twice a week can make a difference. Research has shown that active travel to school can even improve concentration and performance in class.

On these pages you will find links to resources and information which can help encourage children to use more active forms of transport.

Next page
Modeshift STARS
Road safety
Related information
Downloads
News
Social Links
Facebook
Instagram
Google Plus
RSS
Twitter
Sign up for email updates
© Birmingham City Council About Us Accessibility Contact Cookies Privacy Languages Jobs
Suppliers
Powered by Jadu Continuum. Handcrafted by Spacecraft.

Awards
Webby awards honoree 2017 Lovie award winner 2017 Plain English Campaign award winner 2017

Birmingham City Council
Homepage
What’s new
Site map
Search facility
Frequently asked questions
Help
Contact details
Terms & privacy
Feedback
Accessibility
 rating button