Ulster University
A-Z Index Staff - links for Ulster University staff Current Students Global students Graduates - find out more about being a graduate of Ulster University
Keywords
Search Ulster University
Search
Home - Ulster University website homepage
Courses - find a course
Apply information
Ulster Life
Research & Impact
Business themed areas of Ulster University
Sustainability
Sustainable travel
The University has adopted a formal sustainable travel plan with the aim of encouraging staff, students and visitors to travel to and from the University by more sustainable means.

Walking
Cycling
Car Sharing
Electric Vehicles
Public Transport
The travel plan includes a series of initiatives to encourage the use of alternative means of travel such as car sharing, public transport, walking and cycling. Initiatives to reduce the amount of business  travel being undertaken by staff will also form part of the travel plan.

There are numerous benefits for individuals as well as the University resulting from changing to more sustainable travel means, these include:

Reduced travel costs
Reduced environmental impact
Regular exercise should you choose to walk, jog or cycle
Stress free travel through the use of public transport or car sharing
Less time travelling on business through the use of remote conferencing
The University’s sustainable travel plan 2012/13 to 2017/18 can be viewed below.

Ulster University Sustainable Travel Plan 2012/13 to 2017/18

Remote conferencing
When considering the need to undertake business travel, staff (including those with the responsibility for approving business travel) should therefore ask themselves if the journey is absolutely necessary.  

One way in which business travel can be reduced is through the use of the remote conferencing.

The University has excellent remote (i.e. video and telephone) conferencing facilities available,  the use of which should be fully considered as a viable replacement to travel.

Conferencing Types
The main types of remote conferencing facilities available within the University are tele-conferencing and video-conferencing.

Remote conferencing reduces the need for staff members to travel on business e.g. to attend meetings/ training sessions at other campuses/venues, thereby realising the following benefits:

Reducing the associated travel costs to the University.
Reducing the associated environmental impact from business travel.
More efficient use of staff time at work.
Reducing the need for out of hours business travel.
Sustainability
Carbon management plan
Carbon conscious
Biodiversity
Construction and refurbishment
Energy
Governance
Green Impact
Sustainable procurement
Sustainable travel
Waste
Water
Elsewhere on Ulster
Faculties
Arts, Humanities & Social Sciences
Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment
Life and Health Sciences
Ulster University Business School
Courses & Research
Search for courses
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Part-time
Short courses
eLearning
Research & Impact
Doctoral College
PURE
Campus locations
Belfast
Coleraine
Jordanstown
Magee
London and Birmingham
Campus facilities
Accommodation
Sports Services
Library
About Ulster University
About Ulster University
Contact Us
Job opportunities
Key calendar dates
Faculties
News
Events
Other sites
Alumni & Supporters
Confucius Institute
Finance
Flexible Education
ISD
People & Culture
Student Support
 Twitter
 Facebook
 Flickr
 YouTube  
THE Awards 2017 Top 150
THE Awards 2016 Most Improved Student Experience
Cookies & Privacy
Copyright
Freedom of Information
© Copyright 2018 Ulster University
Ulster University is a registered charity (registered with the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland NIC100166).