Cambridge Cycling Campaign logo
Cambridge Cycling Campaign
For better, safer and more cycling in and around Cambridge

WHY CYCLING
OUR WORK
ISSUES & CAMPAIGNS
WHAT’S HAPPENING
HELP & ADVICE
CONTACT
Welcome to cycling
Cycling: it’s fast, it’s cheap, it’s good for your health and for the environment. We strongly recommend it. If you’re going to cycle in Cambridge there are a few things to bear in mind for happy cycling and harmonious interactions with others.

Welcome to cycling video
New for September 2018, our Welcome to Cycling video summarises our top tips for safe and considerate cycling.


The video was created by Alison Norden with a voiceover by Helen East and produced with support from the Co-op Local Community Fund. It was based on our Welcome to Cycling leaflet, which was updated in 2017.

Welcome to cycling leaflet
 Cover image of leaflet

Our Welcome to Cycling leaflet is for anyone new to cycling in Cambridge who would like to know more about the rules of the road and the secret to happy journeys. It was a collaborative project based on feedback from the community using funding from the Cambridge City Council and the Co-op Local Community Fund for the design, printing and distribution.

You can download and print our guide to safe and considerate cycling:

A4 version
A5 version
Or you can email us to order free printed copies for your school, college or workplace.

The leaflet is also designed to be displayed as a poster.

Training
Cycle training is available and may be worth considering. Read our page on training in the Cambridge area.

Buying a bike tax-free through your employer
In order to encourage cycling, the Government allows employers to operate a scheme whereby employees can buy a bike via a regular salary deduction. This means the cost is spread over a period, and more importantly the employee doesn\'t have to pay tax.

For more details, see the Cyclescheme website.

Other useful information
Cycle lights
Collision advice
If your bike is stolen
Buying a trailer
Keeping your bicycle safe
Insurance against cycle theft and third-party liabilities
Bicycle maintenance: tips and articles
Organising cycle rides
National transport general information e.g. portal sites, public transport, cycle touring
Why cycling
Cycling Vision 2016
Cycling 2020
Our work
Who we are
Annual reports
Meetings
Reach ride
Visits
Charitable details
Privacy policy
Issues & Campaigns
Campaigning
Design guides
Policy
What’s happening
News
Events
Volunteering
Newsletter
Elections
Help & Advice
Welcome to cycling
New to Cambridge
Resources
Contact
Contact
Membership
FAQ
Discussion forum
Search

Search
Social media
Icon Facebook
Icon Twitter
Copyright © 2018 Cambridge Cycling Campaign. All rights reserved.
Theme: ColorMag by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress.