This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Learn more
Got it!
Nottinghamshare
  
Welcome to Nottinghamshire Carshare
Nottinghamshire Carshare has been set up to enable you to carshare in and around Nottinghamshire.  The service is free and is available to all who live, work and travel in and around Nottinghamshire.  This site matches you up with potential partners as a driver or passenger.  You can choose to share car journeys as little or as often as you like, with whoever you like!

In partnership with

Nottingham City Council  Nottingham County Council  The Big Wheel
Join our car sharing community
Choose the organisation or location you are part of…
or if you're already a member? Sign in

University of Nottingham Staff Car-share
Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar
386 Members
NUH Car share
Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar
406 Members
Nottingham City Council Staff Car Share
49 Members
Boots Car share
Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar
881 Members
Nottingham County Council Staff Car Share
Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar
393 Members
Games Workshop – Liftshare Scheme
Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar
272 Members
Caunton Engineering Liftshare
Avatar  Avatar  Avatar
65 Members
If you are not part of any of the organisations listed, select Nottinghamshare below.

Nottinghamshare
Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar  Avatar
3254 Members
Already a member? Sign in

Why Liftshare?
 Join for free and find drivers and passengers to share with
 Save money by sharing travel costs
 Cut congestion and pollution
 Reduce the stress of driving by sharing with great people
How Liftshare works
Join
It's quick, simple and free

Search
Offer or seek a lift. Search for or offer a regular or one off trip

Share
Request to share and make contact to arrange any details

Save
Start saving and enjoy all the other benefits of Liftsharing

If you still have questions please see our FAQs and safety tips.

How much could you save?
The average commuter who shares a car could save over £1,000 a year, find out how much you could save with our calculator.


Find someone to Liftshare with...
From

From
 To

To
 
...or if you're able to drive somewhere, why not offer a lift?

Why our community loves Liftshare
 Bryony
Bryony

“Car sharing saves me from commuting on a crowded train, is cheaper, better for the environment and more sociable too.”

 Jackson
Jackson

“It worked out perfectly for us. The site was easy to use and... the journey was absolutely fab. I really recommend it as everyone’s first port of call if they’re worried about costs.”

Community
FAQs
What our members say
Blog
Trust
How Liftshare works
Trust and safety
Terms & Privacy
Cookie Information
© 2018 Liftshare.com. All rights reserved.