The Big Wheel – Turning Transport Around
HomeAbout usContact us

Search...
Search
Home » Change your travel

Change your travel
Greater Nottingham’s sustainable transport system of buses, trams and trains provides a greener alternative to the car that can also save you time and money.

Replacing just one or two car journeys a week with a trip on the public transport network can make a difference to your environment by reducing CO2 emissions. Travelling by public transport often gets you to your destination quicker than by car, with direct bus, tram and train routes into the heart of the City.

What’s more, you’ll be saving wear and tear on your vehicle and can also take advantage of the many ticket offers available – see our bus, train or tram ticketing pages for details.

Park and Ride is another great way of making the most of the sustainable network, getting you part of the way by car, and allowing you easy access into the City centre by bus or by tram.

 

Get walking
Walking is good for you, for the environment and of course it's free!

Get cycling
Cycling is great for your health and is a low-cost way to travel.

Travel by tram
The Tram is fast, convenient and value for money - isn't it time you got on board?

Bus journeys
Nottinghamshire is well served by bus routes - find out how to make the most of the bus.

Travel by train
Let the train take the strain on local and regional journeys

Motorbikes
Get the low-down on how environmentally friendly you can be on two wheels.

Car users
Find out how to make your car journeys cheaper, better and greener.

Join our mailing list

Your email address
Journey planning
Broadmarsh Centre
Victoria Centre
Planning tools
The Royal Centre
Nottingham Forest FC
Capital FM Arena
The Playhouse
Our services
Travel advice
Citycard Cycles
Cycle training
Dr Bike
Cycle Hubs
Guided cycle rides
Park and Ride
TravelRight
Business Services
About the Business Club
How we can help
Workplace Parking Levy
General information
Travel advice for employees
Workplace Challenge
Change your travel
Get walking
Get cycling
Travel by tram
Bus journeys
Travel by train
Motorbikes
Car users
News & Events
News
Events
Maps
Family Cycling Quest – get involved now!
City cycle map
The Riverleen
The Big Track
Sherwood Forest
Hucknall to city
Erewash Valley Trail
National Cycle Route
Bilsthorpe Leisure Trail
Ashfield and Mansfield Trails
The Dukeries Trail
© 2018
The Big WheelPress ReleasesStaff loginTravelRightRideWiseSitemapContact us
The Sustainable Travel Collective is an Investor in the Environment committed to reducing their environmental impact and to the continual improvement of environmental performance. The Sustainable Travel Collective Ltd - Registered Charity number 1153800.
