Do it online
Have Your Say
My Durham
 
Search website
  
 Link to homepage
Residents  News & Events  Business  Council
Home  Residents  Leisure & Culture  Enjoy our parks, coast and countryside  Cycling Where to cycle? 
Where to cycle?
Information on where to cycle in County Durham, whether you're a commuter, cycle for leisure or you're visiting the area.

County Durham has 543km of bridleways, 45km of byways and over 150km of railway paths which offer excellent facilities for leisure and commuter use. A growing number of cycle lanes complements the off-highway facilities and helps create a more comprehensive network.

Cycle routes in County Durham
County Durham West: Hills and Hollows - Trees and Trails
County Durham North: Skirting the Cities - Routes to Roam
County Durham South: Villages and Towns - tracks without Trains
These are available at our various libraries and venues across the county. contact us if you want a copy.

We also have   Icon for pdf Bike Bowes (PDF, 1.9mb)  and   Icon for pdf The Locomotion Way (PDF, 518.4kb)  to explore on your bike.

Places to cycle 
Download  Icon for pdf Cycling in Chester-le-Street (PDF, 4.1mb)  and  Icon for pdf Cycling in Durham City (PDF, 6.3mb) . They have all you need to know about cycling for these areas including cycle routes, safety and security, secure cycle parking and tips.

We will be producing 10 more maps which will be added to this site as soon as they are available. 

Visiting the area to cycle
Visit County Durham has information on top ten cycle routes across the county including Coast to Coast (C2C), Teesdale Way and Link up the Loops routes. To pick a route that suits you check out Visit County Durham top 10 cycling routes.

If you want to plan your own cycle journey then check out Sustrans and CycleStreets. 

Contact us
Document downloads
Icon for pdf Cycling in Chester-le-Street (PDF, 4.1mb)
Icon for pdf Cycling in Durham City (PDF, 6.3mb)
Icon for pdf Bike Bowes (PDF, 1.9mb)
Icon for pdf The Locomotion Way (PDF, 518.4kb)
Offsite links
Coast to Coast (C2C) cycle route
Sustrans
Visit County Durham top 10 cycling routes
CycleStreets
Website feedback
Share this page on Facebook
Share this page on Twitter
Print this page
A to ZABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Contact us | Legal info | Help | Gov.uk
 DCC on Facebook
 Follow us on Twitter
 DCC on YouTube
 DCC on LinkedIn
 DCC on Instagram