Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > What you can do > Cycle and walk to work > How to be a bike buddy

What you can do
How to be a bike buddy
Two people on bikes
If you like cycling to work and know a colleague who's thinking of getting back on their bike, why not invite them to join you on your daily cycle commute?

Cycling to work can be daunting for a first-timer and having the support of an experienced bike buddy can make the first few journeys a lot easier.

There are a few ways you can help them to enjoy their cycle commute to work. 

Get their bike checked
Encourage them to get their bike checked to make sure it is safe. If it's been sitting unloved in a shed for a while it's probably going to need some attention.

You only need basic kit
Cycling does not have to be expensive; you can get started cheaply with some basic kit. A helmet, waterproofs and a rucksack are all you need to give cycling a try.

Plan the journey
You might want to plan a quieter route than the one you'd usually take. Consider routes that will avoid big hills or busy roads, even if it makes the journey a little longer.

Your colleague might not know there are traffic free routes they can take. Show them the way.

On the day
Remember to cycle slower than you usually would and go at their pace. Make sure to leave plenty of time so that neither of you feels rushed.

You may want to think about which parts of the journey they may need extra help to navigate and warn them ahead of time, for example giving some tips on road positioning before coming to a busy junction.

If they've got a long journey to work then you can always suggest they put their bike in the car for the first couple of days and build up to the full distance.

Cycle training
If your colleague is really nervous about their cycling ability you can suggest they take part in cycle training, which can improve their skills and confidence on the road.

Cycle scheme
If their bike is a hazardous heap of rusty metal, or they don't have one at all, check whether your employer has signed up to Cyclescheme. If so, your colleague can buy a bike tax-free (saving on average 30% of the cost) and pay back the cost monthly. If this is too big a commitment, there are plenty of other options - try a web search for local organisations offering refurbished bikes. 

A little guidance and encouragement could help nurture a love of cycling in your colleague and let them experience all the benefits of commuting by bike that you already enjoy.

Want to start cycling to work with a friend or colleague - follow our guide to planning your route

Categories: CommutingCycling
Location: UK-wide
Related content
Article
Commute by bike with confidence
Article
Employee engagement
Blog
Rolling your bike out of hibernation
Related links
The Guardian: The secret to cycling to work
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)