0845 094 2228 0845 094 2228   Member login
Ecosurety
Impact
Evidence
Compliance
Collections
Why us
Careers
News
Contact us
Sustainable commuting: are you up for the challenge?
Blog | Sustainability | Ecosurety
Earlier this year ecosurety challenged its team to find more sustainable ways to get to work.

We wanted to share their best efforts, so for each of the 20 working days in August one member of the team filmed their sustainable journey - resulting in this video capturing a month of sustainable commuting in 60 seconds!

 



 

One particular highlight was James Piper, commercial director, donning his rollerblades for the hilly commute through Bristol, while other methods ranged from a tandem bike ride to five people lift-sharing together. The aim was to demonstrate the diversity of transport methods available other than single occupancy driving.

We will continue to challenge our ever-growing workforce to commute using alternative transport, and hopefully some of these new methods will take off permanently. Why limit it to ecosurety, though? Can you make a change for good and join our journey to a more sustainable future?

Are you up for the challenge?
We therefore challenge other organisations to also find original ways to reduce the impact of their team commutes on the environment, and we’d love to see the results!

Share your own videos or selfies on Twitter (@ecosurety) or email them to info@ecosurety.com and we’ll share the best efforts on our website and social media channels. Good luck!


Olivia Green
Key account manager

Olivia joined Ecosurety in October 2014 as a Graduate account specialist. Now, as a key account manager, her role involves working with our members to provide support across all aspects of the company.


Written by
Olivia Green
Published
19/10/2015
Topics
Ecosurety
Share Article
 
Useful links

Compliance
Support for your packaging, WEEE, battery and ESOS compliance

Read More >>
To make recycling part of the supply chain in Wales, more funding is needed
Ecosurety’s policy manager Robbie Staniforth told the Sustain Wales Summit that within Wales, manufacturers are beginning to realise the responsibility that they have to reprocess the plastic packaging they produce.

Read More >>
Ecosurety publishes its first impact report
As part of our commitment to the fundamental need for transparency in the waste and recycling industry, we have released our first ever impact report.

Read More >>
View all Useful Links >>

Get in touch
First name 
Last name 
Phone number 
Email 
Company 
Enquiry 
Contact Us
Latest News
View All
Stay informed
Sign up to our newsletter
 

Sign up
Call us today on
0845 094 2228
ciwm.jpg
iod.jpg
UK-Plastics-Pact-footer-logo.jpg
recoup.jpg
resource-association.jpg
socotec.jpg
investor-in-people.jpg
Useful links
Compliance
Why us
News
Contact us
Sitemap
Important information
Accreditations
Privacy
Cookies
Website terms
Policies
Contact us
1190 Park Avenue
Aztec West
Bristol
BS32 4FP
0845 094 2228
info@ecosurety.com

Follow us
Twitter  LinkedIn
Ecosurety
© Ecosurety 2018  Company number: 04713606 VAT number: 811 1848 52