Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > What you can do > Cycle and walk to work > Mindfulness on your commute

What you can do
Mindfulness on your commute
Woman walking to work 
Mindfulness on your walk to work can help get you in good spirits for the day ahead

Group of people taking their bikes on the tube
You can put your time on the train or bus to good use by meditating


Walking and cycling to work are excellent ways to calm and focus your mind before a day's work

1
2
3
Make the most of your daily public transport or walking commute by using the time to train your mind to be present. If you do you'll arrive at work feeling relaxed, refreshed and ready to take on the day ahead.

Mindfulness has recently received much attention in the press and rightly so. It’s now prescribed by GPs as a tool to manage depression, anxiety and stress, top athletes use it to maximise their performance and even children are learning the basic principles in school. 

Below are some books and apps that we've found helpful when practising mindfulness. You can use these apps to make the most of the time you spend on the bus or train or to make your walk to work more calming.

Some are available free while others have a small cost.

There are lots of options out there so you can find one that suits you:

1. The Headspace App - grab your headphones and take 10 minutes to escape from the hustle and bustle with a gentle guided meditation to calm your mind and help you to approach the day with a sense of calm and clarity. Looking for more? For a fee you can subscribe to the app and download a range of meditations, longer times and less guidance.

2. Calm.com – this great website and free app allow you to set a meditation timer from as little as one minute. Monitor your progress and switch between meditations to figure out which works best for you.

3. One-moment meditation – this app allows you to learn to meditate quickly and powerfully, a perfect stress-buster for the busiest among us.

4. Try a mindfulness colouring book – if meditation isn’t for you why not try colouring? It works in a similar way to meditating by making you concentrate on the present moment.  You can get one from your local bookshop or online via Better World Books.

5. Read Dr Ben Irvine's Einstein & the art of mindful cycling which can be bought from most online retailers. Many people find that exercise helps them to unwind after a day at work. And by cycling home you're killing two birds with one stone.

6. Tend to travel on foot? You can do it mindfully once you know how - try some background reading here.

The beneficial effects of exercise on stress are well documented. Many people find that exercising after work really helps them to shake off any stresses from their working day. Walking or cycling home is an easy way to incorporate exercise into your daily routine.

Find out about the health benefits of walking or cycling to work

Categories: CommutingLifestyle
Location: UK-wide
Related news articles
London's cyclists tackle climate change
14 December 2015
Related content
Article
Standing up for mental health: One step or ride at a time
Article
Join an air quality movement
Article
Health benefits of cycling and walking
Article
Walking
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)