Skip to main content area
Home
Login | Register
About us | Working with us | Contact us -AA+A

Find us on Facebook (link opens in a new tab/window)  Follow us on Twitter (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our YouTube Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our Flickr Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)
Search this site: Search 
Search
 
HomeFind a walkWhy walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Volunteer with usHealth & social care professionalsRunning health walks
Setting up health walks
News
GDPR: information and guidance
News
Why walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Healthy bodies
Healthy minds
Meet new people
Preventing illness
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Meet new people


"I've made lots of lovely new friends. As well as spending time together on health walks, we've also walked further afield… even spending a few days in the Lake District walking in the hills and camping in an old barn!"
Jean, Walker

Walking can be great for your social life - and knowing you have the support of people around you is a great way to start and keep going. You'll make friends, encourage each other, develop a network of supportive fellow walkers and discover new walks in and around your area. Watch the video above to find out more about why people keep on coming back to their walking group.
Search for a walk near you using the WalkFinder to the right of this page >>
A little encouragement can go a long way, so why not get motivated by joining a health walk near you? Health walks take place across the country and they're for people who - like you - would rather have some company than walk alone.  

Find a local health walk scheme today...
Search within  
of  
Enter a postcode or placename
Latest tweets from @healthywalks
Were you out walking this weekend? ????? If you didn’t get the chance, why not join a short group walk this week?… https://t.co/sgDxTQ9ZbK — 5 hours 5 min ago
People start walking for different reasons, and experience all kinds of physical, mental and social benefits as a r… https://t.co/4UQ5DD4Spk — 4 days 4 hours ago
RT @RamblersGB: Margot and her son Thomas, joined the Stepping Out Carers’ Walks in Kent. Read about how attending these sociable… https://t.co/IAT7t9YSmO — 5 days 2 hours ago
follow Walking for Health on Twitter »
About us
Contact us
News
WalkFinder
Running health walks
Training
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Cookies
