The bus is the easiest and most convenient form of public transport, providing a vital service for people living in both urban and rural areas.
 
Over 400 million passenger journeys were made in Scotland in 2011-12 of which around 33 million (8%) were in the north east.
 
The Getabout partners are working closely with bus operators to continually improve bus services across the region. Nestrans, Aberdeen City Council, Aberdeenshire Council, First Aberdeen and Stagecoach Bluebird are all signed up to a Quality Partnership agreement to work together to provide a modern, accessible fleet, reduce emissions, provide a punctual and reliable service, improve journey times and improve information and ticketing. In recent years new transport interchanges have been developed at both Aberdeen and Peterhead while the bus station at Fraserburgh has been refurbished. Bus priority lanes on the key corridors into the city allow buses to skip the queues of traffic and significantly improve journey times and reliability.
 
 Access to the Airport
 
The JET routes, operated by Stagecoach Bluebird, offer direct connections to Aberdeen International Airport from Aberdeen city centre, Union Square bus and rail stations and Dyce rail station.
 
JET 727 runs 7 days a week direct from the bus station at Union Square to the airport. It runs 7 days a week and offers a fast and frequent service with free on-board wi-fi and plenty of luggage space.
 
JET Connect operates Mondays to Fridays linking Dyce rail station with Aberdeen International Airport and Heliport as well as serving the business areas of Pitmedden and Kirkhill Industrial Estates. For full timetables of these services visit www.stagecoachbus.com

 Where to find further information:
Using the bus is easy – a full and comprehensive guide to the bus routes across the region can be found in the two bus maps for the region:

Aberdeen City Public Transport Guide - Map
http://www.get-about.com/pdfs/Aberdeen%20Public%20Transport%20Leaflet%202013.pdf
 
Aberdeenshire and Moray Public Transport Guidee
http://www.aberdeenshire.gov.uk/publictransport/mapping/transport_guide.asp
 
For timetables, fares and tickets visit the individual operator’s websites:www.firstgroup.com/aberdeen www.stagecoachbus.com/bluebird

To plan a journey visit:

www.transportdirect.info

www.travelinescotland.com/welcome

For longer distance bus services to destinations further afield visit:

www.megabus.com/uk/

www.citylink.co.uk

www.nationalexpress.com/home.aspx

