The Big Wheel – Turning Transport Around
HomeAbout usContact us

Search...
Search
Home » Business Services » Travel advice for employees » Ennterprise City Car Club

Ennterprise City Car Club
Greener Motoring with Enterprise Car Club

Discover a smarter way to drive your business.

Pay as you go motoring comes to Nottingham!  Enterprise Car Club is a low cost, hassle free, hourly car hire scheme supported by the Local Sustainable Transport Fund (LSTF) and The Work Place Parking Levy.  It’s a great alternative to car ownership and traditional car hire, delivered in partnership with Enterprise Car Club, Britain’s largest independent car club, The Big Wheel and Nottingham City Council.  The scheme supports the Council’s plans to provide sustainable transport options for local businesses of all sizes.

The introduction of Enterprise Car Club will strengthen Nottingham’s already successful integrated transport network and help to reduce congestion, parking issues and carbon emissions.  Did you know that the UK car club fleet saves 2721 tonnes of carbon per year? That’s equivalent to 886 return flights from London to Sydney!

It’s a cost effective way for your employees to travel, with vehicles available to hire 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Nottingham business members also have access to over 700 Enterprise Car Club vehicles in other cities across the UK.  Low cost and hassle-free … you can save your businesses time and money by replacing company cars, taxis and pool cars.

“A car club can deliver a lower cost per mile than the equivalent grey fleet or pool car journey as well as significant time and cost savings arising from a reduction in business mileage.  Additionally, shifting from grey fleet to a car club can contribute towards meeting duty of care requirements and reduce your organisation’s environmental impact.” – Energy Saving Trust – Car Club Guide

Once your business is registered – you can reserve a car online or by phone to get you where you need to go.  Affordable hourly rates and low mileage charges – fuel, tax, maintenance and comprehensive insurance is covered.  All you’ll need to do is the driving!

For details of introductory special offers for businesses, including limited numbers of free memberships and drive time credit, tailored business packages and updates please visit www.citycarclub.co.uk

You can also view the  Enterprise Car Club Business Pack and the Car club business incentive application for further details.

Vehicles are available in designated parking bays in convenient locations close to your office, transport links and other businesses.  You can reserve in advance and even last minute – its simple – reserve it and use your card to drive off! View the location map here.

There is a commitment to increase the number of vehicles and locations at which they are available to hire. To request additional locations visit  Enterprise Car Club.

Click on the map for a larger image.

City Cars emit 37% less CO2 than the average UK vehicle.

 

 

 

 

 

In this section
Ennterprise City Car Club
Popular Maps
We've got some great ideas for bike rides in and around Nottingham


Join our mailing list

Your email address
Journey planning
Broadmarsh Centre
Victoria Centre
Planning tools
The Royal Centre
Nottingham Forest FC
Capital FM Arena
The Playhouse
Our services
Travel advice
Citycard Cycles
Cycle training
Dr Bike
Cycle Hubs
Guided cycle rides
Park and Ride
TravelRight
Business Services
About the Business Club
How we can help
Workplace Parking Levy
General information
Travel advice for employees
Workplace Challenge
Change your travel
Get walking
Get cycling
Travel by tram
Bus journeys
Travel by train
Motorbikes
Car users
News & Events
News
Events
Maps
Family Cycling Quest – get involved now!
City cycle map
The Riverleen
The Big Track
Sherwood Forest
Hucknall to city
Erewash Valley Trail
National Cycle Route
Bilsthorpe Leisure Trail
Ashfield and Mansfield Trails
The Dukeries Trail
© 2018
The Big WheelPress ReleasesStaff loginTravelRightRideWiseSitemapContact us
The Sustainable Travel Collective is an Investor in the Environment committed to reducing their environmental impact and to the continual improvement of environmental performance. The Sustainable Travel Collective Ltd - Registered Charity number 1153800.
