TAKE ME TO MAIN CONTENTSKIP TO MAIN CONTENT 
SEARCH
WALKING CITIES: GREATER MANCHESTER
 Back Home What you can do Campaigns Walking Cities: Manchester
Living Streets wants all Greater Manchester to be healthier, cleaner and less congested – by making walking safer, more pleasant and the easiest option for short journeys we can make change happen.

 

And we are delighted that new Mayor Andy Burnham has delivered on his pledge and appointed a Cycling and Walking Commissioner - thanks in no small part to your campaign support!

CREATING A BUZZ IN THE CITY

Living Streets
@livingstreets
 Hard to resist an invite to shape the future. ?? These super powers are being offered up to #greatermanchester folk to create ideas for a city centre transport strategy. Have your say. https://tfgm.com/your-city-centre …

2:12 PM - Oct 12, 2018

Your city centre is changing…
We’re working with Manchester City Council and Salford City Council to come up with ways that we can improve city centre transport for the future.

tfgm.com
3
See Living Streets's other Tweets
Twitter Ads info and privacy
HAVE YOUR SAY
The future of transport in the city centre is in your hands as Greater Manchester puts out its consultation to residents and visitors. Please complete the consultation.

Whether its the Beelines innovative plan to create a city-region-wide cycling and walking network made up of more than 1,000 miles of routes plus 1,400 safer road crossings, Transport for Greater Manchester are leading the way. They are asking for people of Manchester to have their say through various consultations running. The vision is to give priority to the movement of people and where more public spaces to sit, play and socialise will be created.


Living Streets Chief Executive, Joe Irvin says:

"We are excited to see this next stage in Chris Boardman’s ambitious plans to make Greater Manchester a great place for people."



Safer streets
Less pollution
More activity
 

 

#WALKINGCITIES

 

Rate your walk

Help us paint a picture of your everyday walks with our easy-to-use, mobile-friendly tool.


twitter graphic


Tweet a link to our campaign.


Facebook


Share our campaign on Facebook.


Chris Boardman, MBE
We are delighted at the appointment of Chris Boardman as the city region's first-ever Cycling and Walking Commissioner.

It comes after hundreds of our supporters backed our campaign for the postholder to have a brief that included walking - so thank you to you, too!

Our research found that over a quarter of parents in Manchester (29%) think their city is unsafe for children walking to school.

After a generation of decline in the number of children walking to primary school (from 70% to 47%), the government has recognised the importance of walking to school and set a target – to get 55% walking to primary school by 2025.

In his manifesto, Andy Burnham also promised to introduce a new Clean Air Action Plan for Greater Manchester and put forward a plan to modernise our local train stations, making them more accessible.



THESE ARE OUR CAMPAIGN AIMS IN GREATER MANCHESTER
 

 

APPOINT A WALKING AND CYCLING CHAMPION
CLEAN UP THE AIR AND FREE UP SPACE
CREATE PEOPLE-FRIENDLY TOWN AND CITY CENTRES
MAKE OUR ROADS SAFER
Appoint a senior walking and cycling champion for Greater Manchester within the first 100 days who will oversee a transformative behaviour change programme encouraging people of all ages and backgrounds to walk and cycle more – improving Greater Manchester for everyone. 

Set up an ambitious low emission zone that aims to reduce vehicle emissions, cut congestion and help pay for public realm and public transport improvements that will make Greater Manchester a better place to live, visit and work. Mandate TfGM to assess the feasibility of a smart road-pricing scheme for Manchester city centre that compliments the low emission zone.

Invest in walking friendly town centres and safe routes to school across Greater Manchester that encourage people to make local journeys on foot, helps regenerate communities and brings more customers to local businesses.

Adopt a ‘Vision Zero’ approach to road safety, that puts the elimination of road danger at the heart of the transport system and commit to 20mph speed limits across Greater Manchester on streets where people live, work and shop.

OUR WALKING CITIES CAMPAIGN
Living Streets is calling on the new leaders in our major UK cities to make their cities healthier, cleaner and less congested.

 

 


STEP UP WITH US SIGN UP FOR OUR EMAILS

First name * 
Last name * 
Email address * 
Postcode * 
 
 If you would like us to email you with our news, please tick this box
 If you would like to hear about ways you can support our work through donations tick this box
Living Streets is gathering your data to process this action. We would like to tell you about project activity and progress, ways you can support us and other news. We won’t share your details with any third parties and you can unsubscribe at any time.

GET MORE LIVING STREETS
    