Is a car club for me?

City Car Club membership suits all sorts of different needs. If you drive less than 8,000 miles a year, membership will almost certainly save you a lot of money. Not to mention all the environmental benefits and convenience of the service.

We reckon you can probably make your own mind up as to whether City Car Club is for you, but it’s a fairly good bet that if anything below sounds familiar then it’s worth giving it a go.


Don’t own a car, but could really use one?

If you don’t currently own a car or van but could really do with easy access to one on demand then City Car Club is the perfect solution.

Because you only pay for the time you use a City Car you can get all the benefits of a vehicle without the hassles and expenses of owning one. Once you’ve experienced how easy and cost effective City Car Club is, we’re confident you’ll never consider buying a car again.

Remember, cars are parked locally to where you live or work and can be reserved online for as little as 30 minutes or as long as you want. Unlock the cars using your membership card, tap in your PIN, grab the keys and off you go!
 



Paying for a car or van that you don’t use often?

If so, you’re not alone! Thousands of people are paying for a car or van that sits on their driveway (or even worse, in an expensive parking bay) for the majority of the week.

Every passing week sees it getting closer to its next service and MOT as it continues to depreciate in value.

But fear not. If you’re one of these people the good news is that there is now a viable alternative to the burdens of vehicle ownership. City Car Club gives you access to a car or van on demand when you need one, without paying for one when you don’t. You can call it ‘virtual car ownership’, if you like. City Cars are parked locally to where you live or work and can be accessed 24/7 from as little as 30 minutes or as long as you want.

So break the cycle of car ownership, start saving money and join the thousands of other motorists like you who have discovered a smarter way to drive. City Car Club members can save up to £3,500 a year compared to owning their own car.
 


Need a second car, without the extra cost?

Can’t quite make do with one car so you’re considering buying a second for those additional journeys? It’s a familiar story but now there’s a solution to the second car conundrum.

City Cars are parked locally to where you live and work and can be reserved on demand 24/7 for as little as 30 minutes or as long as you want. A perfect supplement to your main car for those additional journeys, and much more cost effective (and greener!) than shelling out on another one. Ready to give it a go? Become a member in minutes by clicking on the link below.
