Skip to main content
current edition: UK edition The Guardian - Back to home
Subscribe to The 
Guardian
Contribute Search jobs Dating Sign in
Search 
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show More 
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Travel
Health & fitness
Women
Love & sex
Beauty
Home & garden
Money
Cars
Datablog Commuting
How does commuting affect wellbeing?
A study into commuting and personal wellbeing has found that each minute added to a commute affects anxiety, happiness and general wellbeing. What is the worst way to travel to work? And would we be happier if we just worked from home?

Ami Sedghi and George Arnett

Wed 12 Feb 2014 12.12 GMT Last modified on Wed 12 Feb 2014 15.13 GMT
Shares
637
Comments
29
 Those who travel to work by tube were found to only be negatively affected by journeys over 30 minutes. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images
 Those who travel to work by tube were found to only be negatively affected by journeys taking over 30 minutes. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images
Commuters are more likely to be anxious, dissatisfied and have the sense that their daily activities lack meaning than those who don’t have to travel to work even if they are paid more. Those were the findings of a study by the Office for National Statistics looking at commuting and personal wellbeing. 

The study analysed personal wellbeing using four measures: life-satisfaction, to what extent the respondent felt the things they did in life were worthwhile, whether the commuters were happy and whether they were anxious. A drop in the first three and a rise in anxiety indicates a negative effect on the person’s wellbeing. 

It found that each additional minute of commuting time made you feel slightly worse up to a certain point. However, strangely, once a commute hit three hours then the negative effects dropped off.


The effect was relatively small in the scheme of overall wellbeing but was judged by the ONS to be statistically significant.

Does the travel mode make a difference to your personal wellbeing?
The analysis compares people whose main travel to work mode is a private vehicle such as a car, minibus or works van with those whose main travel to work mode is an alternative such as train, bus, walking or cycling. The results show that those travelling to work by bus or coach had lower levels of life satisfaction and a lower sense that their daily activities were worthwhile on average than those using a private vehicle to commute to work.

It may not come as a surprise to anyone who’s experienced squeezing into a packed train on their way to work that people who take the train to work recorded higher anxiety levels on average than those who travelled in a private vehicle.

The analysis also found that people who walk to work had lower life satisfaction and a lower sense that their activities were worthwhile on average than those who commute to work using a private vehicle.


But as the ONS rightly state: “the daily commute to work is likely to be experienced as a total package”, so what happens when you combine travel time and mode? The ONS broke travel time (one way) into two categories; 16 to 30 minutes and longer than 30 minutes. For the analysis, the ONS included each mode of transport in combination with each of the two time categories. In each case, the comparison is with people who commute between one and fifteen minutes to work (one way) via any travel method. The key findings are:

Those travelling to work in a private vehicle had lower levels of happiness and higher anxiety levels on average for all journey times (that is, both 16-30 minutes and over 30 minutes)
People spending between 16 and 30 minutes cycling to work had lower happiness levels and higher anxiety on average
Those making long bus journeys to work of more than 30 minutes had lower life satisfaction, a lower sense that daily activities are worthwhile, lower happiness levels and higher anxiety
People commuting more than 30 minutes by train had higher anxiety levels on average
Those walking between 16 and 30 minutes to work had lower life satisfaction, a lower sense that daily activities are worthwhile and lower happiness levels on average. People walking more than 30 minutes to work had higher anxiety levels on average.

But, the ONS are keen to highlight, there were several forms of commuting that were no worse for personal wellbeing on average than a short commute of up to 15 minutes, holding all else equal. These included:

Riding a motorbike, moped or scooter for up to 30 minutes (though beyond this point happiness was negatively affected)
Cycling for more than 30 minutes (cycling less than 30 minutes was associated with lower happiness and higher anxiety)
Travelling by taxi (regardless of journey time)
Taking the train, underground, light railway or tram for up to 30 minutes (beyond this, the sensethat activities are worthwhile was significantly lower and anxiety significantly higher).
Does higher pay make up for the frustration?
This is all well and good but given how people, especially in London, tend to increase their commute as they progress in their career then perhaps the higher salary makes up for it?

Not so, according to the report, which says the following:

Given the loss of personal wellbeing generally associated with commuting, the results suggest that other factors such as higher income or better housing may not fully compensate the individual commuter for the negative effects associated with travelling to work and that people may be making sub-optimal choices. This result is consistent with the findings of previous studies such as Stutzer and Frey (2008). This is potentially important information both for those who commute, particularly for an hour or more, and for their employers.

However, it does add that those financial benefits being passed onto other members of the commuters’ household might make for a happier home. So commuters really could be sacrificing themselves for other people’s happiness.

Download the data
ONS data: download the tables
More open data
Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian

Can you do more with this data?
Contact us at data@theguardian.com
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Since you’re here…
… we have a small favour to ask. More people are reading The Guardian’s independent, investigative journalism than ever but advertising revenues across the media are falling fast. And unlike many news organisations, we haven’t put up a paywall – we want to keep our reporting as open as we can. So you can see why we need to ask for your help.

The Guardian is editorially independent, meaning we set our own agenda. Our journalism is free from commercial bias and not influenced by billionaire owners, politicians or shareholders. No one edits our editor. No one steers our opinion. This is important because it enables us to give a voice to the voiceless, challenge the powerful and hold them to account. It’s what makes us different to so many others in the media, at a time when factual, honest reporting is critical.

If everyone who reads our reporting, who likes it, helps to support it, our future would be much more secure. For as little as £1, you can support the Guardian – and it only takes a minute. Thank you.

Support The Guardian
Paypal and credit card
Topics
Commuting
 
Datablog
Rail transport
 
Motoring
 
Happiness indices
 
Health & wellbeing
 
Office for National Statistics
Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Google+
Reuse this content
more on this story
 
Oxford Parkway station will lead to rise in house prices and commuter numbers
9 Mar 2014
12
Oxford Parkway station will lead to rise in house prices and commuter numbers
 
Cities in motion: transport is as key to urban character as buildings or accents
17 Feb 2014
57
Cities in motion: transport is as key to urban character as buildings or accents
 We bought a house in Oxford. Just one problem: it's 60 miles from my desk
Graeme Wearden
 4 Jul 2014
66We bought a house in Oxford. Just one problem: it's 60 miles from my desk
 
London's Brompton Road tube station sold by Ministry of Defence for £53m
28 Feb 2014
115
London's Brompton Road tube station sold by Ministry of Defence for £53m
London Tube ticket offices: some numbers crunched
26 Feb 2014
33
London Tube ticket offices: some numbers crunched
Your daily commutes: readers' stories
21 Feb 2014
Your daily commutes: readers' stories
Commuting makes you 'unhappy and anxious', says ONS
12 Feb 2014
292
Commuting makes you 'unhappy and anxious', says ONS
Daily commutes: share your pictures and stories
11 Feb 2014
Daily commutes: share your pictures and stories
Datablog
Data journalism and data visualization from the Guardian
 
Where does Alastair Cook rank among England captains?
Published: 7 Sep 2018
Where does Alastair Cook rank among England captains?
 
How the Fairfax takeover will further concentrate Australia's media
Published: 2 Aug 2018
How the Fairfax takeover will further concentrate Australia's media
 
Deceased and still in debt: the student loans that don't get forgiven
Published: 1 Aug 2018
Deceased and still in debt: the student loans that don't get forgiven
 
Tax cuts: a shopping trolley guide to what the changes mean for you
Published: 21 Jun 2018
Tax cuts: a shopping trolley guide to what the changes mean for you
comments (29)
Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.

Order by Oldest Threads Collapsed

MarkZuk 12 Feb 2014 12:55

0
1
So commuters really could be sacrificing themselves for other people’s happiness.

24 hours a week commuting. This is the only reason I do it.

 Share Facebook Twitter Report

CannyRogue 12 Feb 2014 13:15

2
3

How does commuting affect wellbeing?

You don't know. You're quoting figures of correlation, not causation.

Didn't the Guardian previously have someone to talk about misrepresentation of statistics?

 Share Facebook Twitter Report

999Jasper  CannyRogue 12 Feb 2014 15:56

2
3
You don't know. You're quoting figures of correlation, not causation.

How do you know "they don't know?" There's pretty much nothing in the article detailing the study's methodology. Stripping out the effects of basic correlation is fundamental to any such study. They may not have got it perfect, but I'd be surprised if they didn't try to account for other factors (ie., income, etc).

 Share Facebook Twitter Report
View more comments
Most viewed
Fashion
Food
Recipes
Travel
Health & fitness
Women
Love & sex
Beauty
Home & garden
Money
Cars
back to top

search jobs
dating
make a contribution
subscribe
guardian labs
about us
work for us
advertise with us
contact us
help
terms & conditions
privacy policy
cookie policy
securedrop
digital newspaper archive
complaints & corrections
all topics
all contributors
modern slavery act
facebook
twitter
© 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.