JOIN US
SUBSCRIBE / REGISTER
LOGIN


Getty Images/iStockphoto
WALKING OR CYCLING TO WORK COULD REDUCE RISK OF DYING FROM HEART DISEASE BY A THIRD, STUDY FINDS
Ditching your car might just save your life

Sarah Young
@sarah_j_young
Tuesday 22 May 2018 11:50 
0 comments

Click to follow
Indy/Life
Walking or cycling to work could cut your risk of dying from heart disease or stroke by 30 per cent, new research suggests. 

In a bid to understand the impact of everyday activity on health, researchers from the University of Cambridge, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and Imperial College London investigated the commuting habits of 358,99 people enrolled in the UK Biobank.

Their results, published in the journal Heart, found that commuting by foot, bike or public transport dramatically reduced the risk of developing cardiovascular problems or having a stroke.

Read more
 
Sugary drinks 'increase risk of dying prematurely from heart disease'
At the start of the study, people were questioned about their travel habits, as well as other important health behaviours such as smoking before being followed up for an average of seven years.

About two-thirds of participants who commuted three or more times a week relied exclusively on the car

Meanwhile, cycling was less prevalent, being mentioned by eight-and-a-half per cent of regular commuters.

Analysis of the data revealed that, among people who commuted, those with more active patterns compared with exclusive car users were associated with an 11 per cent lower relative risk of developing heart disease or stroke, and a 30 per cent lower relative risk of death from heart disease or stroke. 

Health news in pictures
Show all 40
 Breeding with neanderthals helped humans fight diseases
Daily aspirin is unnecessary for older people in good health, study finds
Vaping could lead to cancer, US study finds
More children are obese and diabetic
What’s more, regular commuters who also had more active patterns of commute and non-commute travel combined had an even lower risk of fatal cardiovascular disease at 43 per cent less.

Read more
Exercise is only good for you when done outside your job, study claims
“More active patterns of travel were associated with a reduced risk of incident and fatal CVD and all-cause mortality in adults,” study authors said.

“This is an important message for clinicians advising people about how to be physically active and reduce their risk of disease.”

MORE ABOUT
HEART DISEASE
STROKE
EXERCISE
COMMUTE
SCIENTIFIC STUDY
Reuse content
Comments
Share your thoughts and debate the big issues
Learn more
Join the discussion
Newest first
Oldest first
Most liked
Least liked
Loading comments...
GET IN TOUCH
Contact us
Jobs
OUR PRODUCTS
Subscriptions
Install our apps
Archive
OTHER PUBLICATIONS
Evening Standard
Novaya Gazeta
EXTRAS
All topics
Voucher codes
Advertising guide
Syndication
LEGAL
Code of conduct and complaints
Contributors
Cookie policy
Privacy notice
User policies
