Skip To...
Menu
Travelwest
Search
Search for:
Search...
Walking to Work Tips Maps & Routes News
Walking to Work Tips
Hints and tips to make your walking commute an enjoyable and safe experience.

Share on Twitter
 
Share on Facebook
 
Share on Google+
Planning your route
Before you start, it’s worth doing some research on the best routes – there are some good digital resources to help you.

Try varying your route a little to keep it interesting
Try out new routes on the way home – when you’ve time to explore
Time yourself – so you know how long each route takes (average walking speed is 3mph)
Be prepared to adjust your route for different weather conditions (see Walking in winter)
Check the weather conditions before you leave – local travel updates can be found on-line, on breakfast TV and local radio stations, or via mobile apps
Google Maps
Walkit.com’s urban route planner
What to wear
With a little trial and error, you’ll soon find out what works for you.

Wear multiple layers of thin clothing and avoid anything too big and bulky – remember you’ll quickly warm up as you are taking active exercise
Think about what you’ll need to take off once you get to work
Wear well-fitting, sturdy walking shoes or trainers with socks – avoid heels and sandals, you can always change your shoes at work
Be prepared for rain – a lightweight, waterproof and windproof jacket is indispensable, or consider carrying a plastic cycling cape for a quick cover up
Wear a hat to protect your head and hair – maybe tie your hair back to avoid getting too windswept!
Don’t forget sun screen for your face
Make sure you are visible to other road users (see Staying safe)
How to carry your stuff
If your walk is longer than 10 minutes, then this is important.

A small, well-designed rucksack is the best way to carry stuff, failing that a messenger bag slung across your body
Keep your hands free
Don’t carry a briefcase – keep it at work
Don’t carry a shoulder bag – it will quickly become tiring and unbalance your body
Keep it light – only carry what you absolutely need – aim for about 5lbs including the bag
Your rucksack ideally should have padded shoulder straps and a waist strap
Wear it high on your back – so you maintain good body posture
Use both shoulder straps – to keep your body balanced
Staying safe
Follow these simple guidelines to help keep yourself safe.

Make sure other road users can see you – wear light-coloured clothing or something fluorescent
In the dark, wear a high visibility vest and/or reflective accessories to ensure other road users see you in plenty of time
Don’t walk between cars queuing at lights or in slow-moving traffic – cyclists and motorbikes can’t see you
Cross the road at zebra and pelican crossings
Give yourself plenty of time – accidents are more likely to happen if you’re in a rush!
Walking in winter
You’ll need to take a few extra precautions during the winter. For a few months, you’ll be walking in the dark and encountering more challenging weather conditions.

Be prepared – check the forecast and dress for the weather
Stick to well-lit paths – avoid off-road short cuts
Think about investing in walking poles for extra support and stability, and/or ice studs or snow boots to prevent slipping in icy conditions
Don’t underestimate the hazards of ice. In very cold weather, it’s best to adjust your route to use gritted pavements and footpaths. Maps of priority gritting routes can be found on your local council website
Bristol City Council
South Gloucestershire Council
Bath and North East Somerset Council
North Somerset Council
Arriving at work
Allow some time to spruce yourself up when you get to work.

Give yourself time to cool down
Find the best bathroom to smarten yourself up – some employers provide lockers for people walking or cycling to work
Body wipes can be useful if you’re a bit sweaty (it happens!)
Change your shoes and pack away non-work clothing
Have a drink of water and maybe a small snack – and you’ll be good to go
Stay motivated!
There are some real benefits to becoming a walking commuter. To stay motivated, remind yourself why you made that choice – here are a few good reasons:

You arrive at work alert, energised and ready to start the day
It’s a stress-free journey – you’ll know exactly how long it takes; no need to worry about traffic and public transport delays
You save money – no fares, petrol or parking to pay; no expensive equipment needed
You get fit and stay healthy – walking burns calories and it’s a good cardiovascular workout, lowering blood pressure, reducing risk of heart attack, osteoporosis and type 2 diabetes
You enjoy the big outdoors while getting your daily dose of vitamin D
See allTravel Updates
Journey Planner

Starting location

Finishing location
Find Route
View Full Journey Planner
Live Arrivals

Starting location
Search
Bus Routes

Search
Subscribe to travel updates, news, and offers


first name...

last name...

email address...

By signing up you are agreeing to our terms and conditions and privacy policy
Preferences
Travelwest
Follow Us
Twitter
Facebook
About us
Contacts
Moving Home
Community projects
Businesses
Wheels to Work West
Schools active travel
Universities toolkit
Freight consolidation
Get to Bristol airport
Bristol ferry
Transport projects
Essential evidence
News Archive
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Join our mailing list
Accessibility
© travelwest.info 2018. All Rights Reserved.