Main menu
Skip to primary content
Skip to secondary content
Home
Projects
Safe cycle routes to schools
North-South off-road cycle link
Hayling Billy upgrade
Bikeability and cycle training
Achievements to date
The Cycle Hayling Map
Upgrade to the Cinder Track
Hayling Billy sign boards
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
Community support
The Cycle Hayling vision
How can I help?
Support us
Offer help with a project
Give us feedback
Get cycling
I’d like to cycle more, but…
Bike maintenance
I need help with…
Teach a child to cycle
Hayling Island by bike
News
Other articles
Community support
Cycling for fun
Did you know?
Hayling Billy
Hayling Island
Web site
All articles by category
All articles by date
All events
Map/Downloads
The Cycle Hayling Map
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
About us
Our Vision
Supporters
Who we are
How we work
Our history
Contact us
Search
I’d like to cycle more, but…
Cycling has many benefits:

Health


There’s a great deal of information on the web about the health benefits of cycling.  Just Google “cycling health benefits” to see plenty of articles.

In summary, cycling:

Helps your heart and cardiovascular system leading to a drop in blood pressure reducing your risk of heart disease
Improves fitness, stamina and strength
Reduces fat by burning calories
Provides an excellent way to exercise:
Doesn’t need a lot of self-discipline: it’s a by-product of getting around
Low impact on joints
Can help with specific problems, such as back and knee ailments – but you should always consult your GP before taking up any new form of exercise if you have a health problem
Helps you stay active in later years
Can relieve stress and depression, improving your self-esteem, mood and mental well-being
Wealth


You can save money on petrol and parking if you cycle instead.  Your car is at its most inefficient during the first few miles of any journey.  Replacing short trips with a cycle ride will significantly reduce your fuel bills – and improve your fitness – you might find it’s faster by bike than car for some trips.

Commuting to work can save you money on petrol, parking, train fares and bus fares.  Do you have two cars in the family, including one that sits in a company car park all day?  If so, you might be able to dispense with a car altogether, saving on insurance, servicing repairs and car tax.  If your company has a cycle to work scheme, you can get a lot of money knocked off a new bike.

Cycling is a cheap way to exercise.  It’s easy to get hold of a cheap bike and some basic equipment, and off you go.  No gym membership needed.

Happiness


You don’t need to be super-fit to enjoy cycling.  Just getting exercise out in the fresh air gets the endorphins going – making you feel good.  Cycling gives you independence – you’ll be surprised how quickly you can get around – but you still have time to appreciate our scenery.

All the family can participate.  Cycling is a great way for the family to spend time together; and you’ll be encouraging your children and grandchildren into good habits for later life.

There are several cycling clubs based on and near Hayling Island.  Cyclists tend to be a friendly bunch and going out with a club is an easy way to make friends.

You might, however, see obstacles that prevent you from cycling, or doing as much cycling as you would like.  The articles below describe various issues people have with cycling, and suggest ways to overcome them.

(Re)learning how to cycle
I don’t have a bike
I’d like to start commuting
I’d like to cycle for pleasure
I have a physical disability

Donkey Derby & Fete - Saturday 27 May
R4 Woman's Hour gives entertaining and informative program on cycling
Bike hire now available on Hayling Island
Local(ish) bike hire
I'm worried about theft
Be Flash, Get Noticed!
I don't know what to wear
My bike is in a state
I don't know the rules of the road for cyclists
Code of conduct for shared-use paths
If these articles don’t help, we’d be happy to try to answer any cycling-related questions you might have.

Contact Cycle Hayling    |    Privacy policy    |    Cookies    |    A Haylings BEST initiative
Tweet about us
Proudly powered by WordPress
