Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > What you can do > Use your car less > How to do your shopping by bike

What you can do
Cymraeg
How to do your shopping by bike
Woman placing a bouquet of flowers in her pannier
If you want to try riding your bike for more of the everyday journeys, you may have wondered how to tackle the weekly shopping trip. 

With a few modifications to your bike and by tweaking your shopping habits, shopping by bike can be easily done. 

Safety first
Do not hang shopping bags on the handlebars: the load will affect the steering and may get in the way of the brakes or front wheel, causing you to crash. The swinging bag banging on your knees will also get annoying and you may find the contents arrive squashed.

Rucksacks
The easiest way to carry shopping is with a rucksack. Although a bit limiting in terms of how much you can fit in, a rucksack is fine for a quick run to the shop and one carrier bag worth of shopping. However, carrying that heavy weight on your shoulders can be uncomfortable and can make your back hot and sweaty.

Baskets
Fitting a basket to the front or rear of your bike, combined with a rucksack can give you that extra much needed carrying power. Whether you opt for a classic wicker version or a mesh wire one, there’s something to suit every bike if you look around.

Make sure your basket is securely fitted and use bungee cords to strap things down.

Panniers, racks and bags for bikes
Panniers are essentially bags for your bike. They attach either side of the rear wheel using a pannier rack. There is a large variety of panniers available to suit all needs and tastes. The most practical is a waterproof pair. Ortlieb's panniers are famously sturdy and come with a five year warranty. Choosing something practical doesn't mean you need to compromise on style though. There are some great designs available, like these vibrant patterned ones that make a statement.

Before you make a choice, look at the capacity (measured in liters) to work out what you will need. If your bike did not come with a pannier rack fitted, check the back of the frame for bolt fixings (road bikes and mountain bikes, sadly, probably won’t have them) where you can fit a rack. You can get them from most bike shops, which comes with the added bonus that they will be able to fit them for you.

Trailers
For serious family shopping or those larger items, you probably need a trailer. You could carry a shopping trolley's worth with a trailer, but remember you do need to pedal back home. Trailers come in a plethora of shapes, sizes and wheel configurations, so look around before you buy.

Shopping Tips
Now you 've got the transportation covered, we've got some tips on shopping.

Where you shop
When shopping by bike, you don't have to worry about car parking spaces. This means you can shop locally or in town, giving you more choice and helping support independent businesses.

Multitasking
Whether you are buying from several local shops or have a few errands to run, it is so much easier by bike, as you can park your bike right outside where you need to be. 

What you buy
Think carefully about what goes in your shopping basket, and try and calculate exactly how much you will need, avoiding waste. Look out for bulky packaging taking up unnecessary room.

How often you shop
Shopping less and more often means you only have to carry supplies for two to three days in advance. This enables you to buy fresh and makes shopping faster, especially at the checkout. Having your meals planned and sticking to a shopping list helps you avoid those impulse buys and stay on budget too.

If you find it difficult to do all your shopping on bike, you can order heavy items such as juice cartons and tinned food in bulk every few weeks and have them delivered.

Combine your shopping trip with an urban adventure route
Sign up to our newsletter for regular updates

Categories: CyclingLifestyle
Location: UK-wide
Related content
Article
Mindfulness on your commute
Article
How to be a bike buddy
Blog
Intelligent mobility needs walking and cycling
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 
Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)