Cambridge Cycling Campaign logo
Cambridge Cycling Campaign
For better, safer and more cycling in and around Cambridge

WHY CYCLING
OUR WORK
ISSUES & CAMPAIGNS
WHAT’S HAPPENING
HELP & ADVICE
CONTACT
< Previous: The benefits of cycling  Home  > Next: Providing for cycling
ONE.. Why Cycling?
Cycling - Cambridge’s decongestant
Coton cycle path

If encouraged and promoted effectively, cycling can offer fast relief from congestion, particularly in Cambridge’s often narrow and traffic-clogged streets.

People assume that the difference in traffic in school holidays is about a third. But in fact, the volume of cars is only 10% less. So moving even that small volume to cycling would help enormously

Studies have shown that during half-term and school holidays, almost all the traffic queues in Cambridge disappear. This is despite the fact that the volume of traffic only drops by 10%. So removing 10% of the traffic would mean all forms of transport would flow much more freely. Yet, almost 50,000 new dwellings are planned around Cambridge in the coming decade, so we have to go further than 10%.

Ironically for a cycling campaign, we have long promoted the computer modelling of a no-cycling day, to demonstrate the huge contribution cycling makes to keeping traffic levels down

Conventional wisdom says that building more roads and better junctions will help to ease traffic flows. However, research shows that the same effect can be achieved for less money by investing in other forms of transport, such as cycling. This is because good alternatives tempt sufficient people out of their cars to obtain the 10%+ reduction.

As a result, contrary to popular belief, more cyclists on the road actually make drivers’ journeys faster because there are fewer cars. Ironically for a cycling campaign, we have long promoted the computer modelling of a no-cycling day, when the large number of cyclists who normally leave their car at home drive instead, to make people realise the huge contribution cycling makes to keeping traffic levels down.

The Campaign believes that a heightened investment in first-rate, continental-standard conditions for cyclists would have a huge impact on traffic volumes in Cambridge, as well as reducing levels of pollution and environmental damage.

Children on a bike in traffic     Cyclist waiting at traffic lights

< Previous: The benefits of cycling  Home  > Next: Providing for cycling
 

Why cycling
Cycling Vision 2016
Cycling 2020
Our work
Who we are
Annual reports
Meetings
Reach ride
Visits
Charitable details
Privacy policy
Issues & Campaigns
Campaigning
Design guides
Policy
What’s happening
News
Events
Volunteering
Newsletter
Elections
Help & Advice
Welcome to cycling
New to Cambridge
Resources
Contact
Contact
Membership
FAQ
Discussion forum
Search

Search
Social media
Icon Facebook
Icon Twitter
Copyright © 2018 Cambridge Cycling Campaign. All rights reserved.
Theme: ColorMag by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress.