Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > What you can do > Cycling > Planning your cycle routes

What you can do
Planning your cycle routes
Cyclist in town 
Be considerate of others by understanding which paths are most suitable for cyclists

Whether commuting to work, heading to the shops or visiting friends cycling is a fast, convenient and fun way to reach your destination. Plan your route around quiet streets and interesting places – when you’re on your bike there are lots of cycle paths and traffic-free routes you can access, as well as the whole road network.

Are you looking for inspiration where to go?
Have a look at our walking and cycling routes page.

The National Cycle Network
Our National Cycle Network is a country wide network of cycle paths that pass through the centre of every major town in the UK, and more than half of you live within a mile of it. Start by looking out for the blue signs near you – the network is well-signed and easy to follow.

You can also use our map to find on-road and traffic-free routes near you that are part of the National Cycle Network. Just type in an area or postcode to discover routes all over the UK.

We also have a range of free and retail maps and leaflets to help you use your local Network more. Browse through our shop for more detailed maps.

Your local council may also have produced a cycle map for your local area, so you might want to get in touch to ask them.

When planning a route, aim to stick to these as much as you can:

quiet roads or cycle paths
roads with low speed limits
bus lanes
parks and open spaces which allow cycling
Cycle Streets' journey planner can be useful when planning your route, giving you the option to plot the fastest route or a slower, but less busy, one.

Once you’ve planned your route, do a practice run at the weekend when the roads are quieter so you’ll be confident and less flustered on Monday morning.

Are you using an electric bike? If you're cycling further away from home the Electric Bicycle Network has a handy map to find electric bike charging spots in certain areas around the UK. 

Types of path
Be considerate of others by understanding which paths are most suitable for cyclists:

It is illegal to cycle on a pavement – use roads or cycle paths;
Public bridleways can be used by walkers, cyclists and horse riders. By law, those on two wheels should give way to other users. Remember the surfaces can be variable and not always suitable for all bikes;
Shared-use paths (like those that make up the National Cycle Network) are free of motor traffic and designated for use by walkers, cyclists and sometimes horse riders. These paths generally have good surfaces. You should also read our Cycling Code of Conduct for shared use paths.
Find out how you can start cycling to work
Road safety tips for cyclists

Categories: Cycling
Location: UK-wide
Related content
Article
Advice on using shared-use paths
Article
Health benefits of cycling and walking
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)