Home
Projects
Safe cycle routes to schools
North-South off-road cycle link
Hayling Billy upgrade
Bikeability and cycle training
Achievements to date
The Cycle Hayling Map
Upgrade to the Cinder Track
Hayling Billy sign boards
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
Community support
The Cycle Hayling vision
How can I help?
Support us
Offer help with a project
Give us feedback
Get cycling
I’d like to cycle more, but…
Bike maintenance
I need help with…
Teach a child to cycle
Hayling Island by bike
News
Other articles
Community support
Cycling for fun
Did you know?
Hayling Billy
Hayling Island
Web site
All articles by category
All articles by date
All events
Map/Downloads
The Cycle Hayling Map
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
About us
Our Vision
Supporters
Who we are
How we work
Our history
Contact us
Search
Post navigation ?  Previous  Next ?   I have a physical disability
Posted on  January 6, 2013 by   Andy Henderson  
There are several groups that provide advice on inclusive cycling.  For example:

CTC – which keeps a register of organisations that support inclusive cycling
The Handcycling Association
We have direct experience of battery-powered cycles in the group.  These are particularly useful for people who lack the stamina for longer rides.  They do, however, require pedalling.  If you have any specific questions about battery-powered bikes, we’d be happy to try to answer any specific questions you might have here.

Similarly, we have experience with trikes – and even battery powered trikes.  They’re particularly useful for people with balance or mobility problems.  Again, we’d be happy to answer any specific questions you might have here.

We don’t have any direct experience of other forms of inclusive cycling, however.  If you do, please get in touch.

This entry was posted in Help with cycling by Andy Henderson. Bookmark the permalink.
Comments are closed.

Contact Cycle Hayling    |    Privacy policy    |    Cookies    |    A Haylings BEST initiative
Tweet about us
Proudly powered by WordPress