walkWalkarrow  cycleCyclearrow  busBusarrow  trainTrainarrow  carCarshare
red Home
red News
red Contact
CAR-SHARE
By the year 2010 there will be 70% more cars on the road than there are today. Sometimes there is no alternative but to get behind the wheel and drive to work. But, by making a slight change to your daily routine you could really make a difference and save yourself some money.

Why Car-Share?
Car-sharing can be flexible. Joining a car-share scheme does not commit you to sharing all the time. You can choose from an occasional lift to a more regular set-up. If everyone shared once a week, we would all notice a big difference in traffic on our roads and CO2 emissions, thus helping the environment.

FIND A CAR-SHARE BUDDY...
Free, lift-sharing scheme, designed to reduce your daily travel costs & reduce pollution in the environment. To use the scheme, just go to https://Wallingfordcrowmarshcommuting.liftshare.com and register your journey details. The system will automatically add you to the Wallingford/Crowmarsh Group. You will then be sent a log in and password via email.

The scheme gives a great flexibility - a choice of lift-sharing on a daily basis or just a one-off journey. For privacy, only your name/nickname, gender and age are shown to potential matches.

What about insurance? In general, car-sharing should not affect insurance. It is advisable to inform the insurance company that a driver is registered with the scheme, but this should not incur additional costs.

What about the legal position? The full position is given in the Road Traffic Act 1988. In brief, this says that there should be no more than eight people to a private vehicle if it is used for car-sharing and the scheme should not generate a profit.

How much should I charge/expect to pay? The Road Traffic Act 1988 allows a contribution to be made to the driver, but states that the total sum received should not generate a profit. Individual sharers can decide between themselves how they wish to split the cost of a journey. In many cases the sharing arrangement will be simple, alternating between different cars. However, it is quite acceptable to charge per mile.  
Liftshare Website
(website)
Register/Find Carshare Buddy
(website)
events
LiftShare Week - 6 - 10 October 2014
(news)
This website is supported by:

CABICEHEAFugro HRWSODC
©Green2Work 2008 - Who are we? - Contact Us - Disclaimer