Menu Search
Home  Ways to travel  Train
Train
West Midlands by train
Fast, frequent, reliable journeys
Welcome to one of the biggest, most-integrated rail networks outside of the capital. Be it for business or pleasure, you’re better connected than ever, whether you’re travelling in the West Midlands, or beyond.

If you’re going further afield, you’re right at the heart of the National Rail network. London, Manchester, Scotland and Wales are all easily accessible, as is Birmingham Airport.

Train timetables
Trains through the West Midlands are fast, frequent and better than ever before.

View timetables

Park and Ride
With free parking across all our sites, it’s never been easier to jump on board.

View locations

Interactive rail map
This handy map can help you find out more about each station in the area. 

View Map

Operators
Need to get in touch with one of the train operators in the region?

View details

Friends and family fare
If you're a train or network season ticket holder take advantage of this great benefit.

Find out more

Super off-peak fare
Evening train travel made super with return ticket at just £2.50.

Find out more

   Train service status
LIVE2 service alerts
PLANNED34 service alerts
Help when its needed
Occasionally things do go wrong and journeys can be delayed or cancelled. Use our handy tool to help you plan alternative journeys in times of disruption. 

Find out more

Park and Ride Works
We like to keep our Park and Ride sites in tip top condition. Keep up to date on sites that currently have works planned to affect them. 

Find out more

Stay up to date
Don't miss out on vital information, sign up today and be in the know at all times.







Subscribe
More information
Jobseekers
Young People
Transport accessibility
Disabled person's pass
Follow us on...
FacebookTwitter
Swift Pay As You Go
If you pay cash fares to travel, PAYG is the smarter and cheaper way to travel by bus and tram in the West Midlands.

Find out more

Information for...
Jobcentres
Companies
Teaching professionals
Accessibility Terms & Conditions Jobs Media Privacy Statement Contact Cookies 

© West Midlands Combined Authority