Queen's University Belfast
Queen's Students
Staff
Alumni
News
Staff Directory
STUDY
RESEARCH
INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS
ABOUT
Search Queen's University Belfast
Cars
UNIVERSITY DIRECTORATESESTATES DIRECTORATESUSTAINABILITYTRANSPORT & TRAVELCARS
More Options
Buses
  
Trains
  
Cycling
  
Walking
  
Motorbikes
  
Cars
  
Travel Guide
 
Travel Plan
Electric Vehicle Charge Points
Contact Us
Bus & Train Week 2016
 car sharers
Travel by Car

Why?

Do you really need to drive to work?  Refer to other pages within this site for information on the viable alternatives to car commuting 
Leaving the car at home one day a week is a 20% reduction in cars being driven to the University 
The 2008 staff travel survey revealed that overall 45% of the staff live within a 5 mile radius of their workplace (easy walking/cycling distance) and yet 11% of the staff in this group usually drive this distance. 
How?

The University issues car parking permits for a number of parking areas around the campus. The demand for car parking exceeds the provision and the permits are issued annually, subject to the payment of a fee. Any queries should be directed to ext 5005 or permits@qub.ac.uk. 
Before you travel, especially if for business travel, check out the local traffic information - at trafficwatch NI 
Queen's University Carshare Club

If you need to drive on a regular basis to work, have you considered car sharing? The University's Car Share Scheme has been developed to enable staff and students to find a potential carsharer.  Click on QUB Car Share Club to register your details. A document detailing Frequently Asked Questions including the registration process and issues surrounding charging passengers and insurance can be found by clicking here.

The benefits of sharing on either an informal or formal basis are:

you can cut your travel costs 
you can help reduce peak hour traffic congestion and pollution 
cutting down on the number of days you drive to / from work can help reduce the stress of driving in congested traffic 
you still retain a level of flexibility that comes with having access to a car 
if you leave your own car at home it will be free for use by others members of your family 
The 2008 staff travel survey revealed that 33% of staff are currently car sharing informally, so why not give it a try? Ask around in your department or building; you may well find a member of staff willing to share with you, but ensure that you are happy and feel safe sharing before agreeing to a car share.

Guaranteed Lift Home Scheme

The Guaranteed Lift Home (GLH) Scheme guarantees University employees, who formally car-share, a return journey home should the car driver let them down, in the event of an unforseen problem e.g. picking up a sick child from school.  Applicants must be the passenger as the GLH Scheme assumes that the driver will drive or make his/her own arrangements.  Click on Guaranteed Lift Home (GLH) Scheme for full Scheme details and terms and conditions.

Not willing to share?

Of course car sharing doesn't suit everyone.  If you still need to drive, won't car share and there are no viable alternatives, you could consider off-setting your car's CO2 emissions with Climate Care -  CO2 Calculator

 Car energy label
Buying a new vehicle?

From the 1st September 2005, look out for the new car energy label scheme. Similar to the appliances energy label scheme, the label (see picture on the right) will show the estimated annual cost of fuel for the car, environmental information, and other data including the MPG (miles per gallon) and fuel consumption.

Further information on vehicle fuel emissions and the related vehicle excise duty - click on Vehicle Certification Agency. Examples of vehicles within the current CO2 emission bands are listed below:

A-rated (<100 g/km) - Battery electric vehicles

B-rated (101-120 g/km) - Toyota Prius 1.5 petrol-electric hybrid, Smart car 0.7 petrol, Citroen C2 1.4 diesel

C-rated (121-150 g/km) - Fiat Panda 1.2 petrol, Ford Ka 1.3 petrol, VW Golf 1.9 TDI diesel, Jaguar X-type 2.0 diesel saloon

D-rated (151-165 g/km) - Mini One 1.6 petrol, manual, Ford Fiesta 1.6i petrol, Peugeot 307 1.4 petrol

E-rated (166-185 g/km) - Ford Mondeo 1.8i petrol, Vauxhall Vectra 1.8 petrol, Rover 75 1.8 petrol, Toyota Avensis 1.8 petrol

F-rated (>185 g/km) - Land Rover Freelander 2.0 diesel, Audi A4 1.6 petrol saloon, BMW X5 4.8 petrol, Jaguar X-type 2.0 petrol saloon automatic, Toyota RAV4 2.0 petrol

(Source: Department for Transport)

Tips for fuel efficient driving

The way you drive

Be a good driver. Following these basic economy driving skills could save around you 30% in fuel costs (the equivalent of 25p on every litre of fuel you use).

Dont over-rev the engine - particularly when starting your vehicle 
Drive smoothly - driving aggressively causes more pollution, will increase your risk of having an accident and will cost you more in fuel. Avoid rapid acceleration and heavy braking, and use the minimum acceleration necessary, even in a traffic jam. Remember - accelerate smoothly, brake gently 
Slow down- driving at higher speeds significantly increases fuel consumption, pollution and increases your risk of having an accident. Obey the speed limits. On faster roads, doing 50 mph can use 25% less fuel than 70 mph. Driving at 90 mph can use 60% more fuel than doing 70 mph 
Use higher gears,as soon as traffic conditions allow -be prepared to skip gears (up and down) to suit your speed and the terrain 
Switch off the engine when idling - idling engines burn fuel and waste money. Sitting stationary is zero miles per gallon, switch off the engine whenever it is safe to do so 
Cold starts. A car warms up faster when it is moving -dont sit and wait for the car to warm up - drive off as soon as possible after starting 
Use air-conditioning (AC) sparingly - AC is a drain on the cars engine and can increase fuel consumption by up to 20%. Use the air vents instead and on not so hot days and in stop start traffic wind down the window instead 
Look after your vehicle

Check your fuel consumption- it will help you get the most from the car. A reduction in miles per gallon/ litre usually means there is a problem 
Regular servicinghelps keep the engine at its best efficiency 
Check your tyre pressure -under-inflated tyres will increase your fuel bills and increase emissions 
Minimise drag - roof or rear mounted racks, and driving with windows open increases wind resistance and the amount of fuel you use. So wind your window up and remove racks if youre not using them 
Travel light - extra weight increases the amount of fuel you use. Check the boot regularly and take out what you dont need 
Following this advice will help you do your bit to improve local air quality. It will also help reduce CO2 - a greenhouse gas that contributes to global warming.

 Queen's University Belfast
Connect QUB Twitter   QUB Facebook   QUB Instagram   QUB YouTube
Contact Us
Telephone:
+44 (0)28 9024 5133
Emergency Telephone:
+44 (0)28 9097 2222
© Queen's University Belfast 2018, University Road, Belfast, BT7 1NN, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom
Get in Touch
Legal
Accessibility
Discover
About Queen's
Our Research
The Campus
Life in Belfast
International
Information
Find a Course
Job Opportunities
Semester Dates
Recruit Our Students
Download a Prospectus
Services
Current Staff
Current Students
Staff/Student Email
Library
Accommodation
Connect
Alumni and Supporters
Media Contacts
Staff Directory
Ask a Question
Contact a School
 Russell Group
 QAA
 Athena Swan
 Queen's Anniversary Prizes
Queen's University Belfast is committed to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. 
For more information please read our Equality and Diversity Policy.

Queen's University Belfast is registered with the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland NIC101788 
VAT registration number: GB 254 7995 11