Skip to content
We’re doing some essential maintenance to our website which means that you won’t be able to access some of our services. We’re sorry for any problems this may cause. close alert bar
Derbyshire County Council
Subscribe for updates
MENU 
 
 
 
Search
I’m looking for…
Home  Leisure and culture  Countryside  Access  Bicycles
Bicycles
Cycling for everyone.

Share this page 
Share via Facebook
 
Share via Twitter
 
Share via LinkedIn
 
Share via Email
 Three bikers
Ever wondered how far you could cycle?
Ever wondered how to get started?
Ever wandered ...on a bike?
Cycling is a great way to explore the countryside, take up exercise and get around.

Whether out for fun, visiting friends and family, or cycling to work, there are more than 300km of cycle ways in Derbyshire to help you on your way.

Many routes follow old railway lines or waterways and offer level, surfaced routes. They are ideal places to start cycling whether young or old.

When out of the towns and into the countryside the routes follow pleasant green corridors with distant landscapes and local wildlife along the way.

Most routes are shared paths with walkers and horse riders. Please respect other users and always use a bell before overtaking.

Planning a holiday?
Explore Derbyshire’s stunning rolling hills, rugged peaks, canal towpaths and gentle greenways.

Cycling makes a great holiday activity, and if you haven’t got bikes you can hire bikes, children’s trailers/seats/tag-a-longs at one of Derbyshire’s cycle hire centres.

New routes are being created every year, with more and more links directly into communities and to places of interest.

Cycle Derbyshire leaflet – free map
Available to download on this page, this leaflet gives tips on how to get started and where to get advice, contacts for different routes and organisations as well as tips for safe cycling.

The map shows the best of the county’s cycling routes, distances, locations of cycle hire centres, the National Cycle Network routes and the main town centre connections and railway stations.

To request further information or to comment on the leaflet please email countrysideservice@derbyshire.gov.uk

Related documents
Cycle Derbyshire map - 943KB
Cycle Derbyshire leaflet - 516KB
Cycle Derbyshire poster - 2MB
Also on our website
Cycle hire
Smart Rider cyclist training
Cycle safely
Walks and trails
Sustainable travel and smarter choices
Chesterfield proposed cycle network
Share this page 
Share via Facebook
 
Share via Twitter
 
Share via LinkedIn
 
Share via Email
Tell us what you think about this page 

Derbyshire County Council
Accessibility| Disclaimer| Cookies| Privacy policy| Modern Slavery Act
Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn
© Derbyshire County Council 2018

We use cookies on our website. By using our site you agree that we can store and access cookies on your device. Read our cookie policy.Accept