Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > What you can do > Cycle and walk to work > To shower or not to shower?

What you can do
To shower or not to shower?
cyclists on protected path 
You won’t be surprised to hear that a lot of people at Sustrans cycle to work

man wearing a suit carries folding bike down stairs 
1
2
Cycling to work is a great way to incorporate more exercise into your daily routine and many people find it makes them feel more alert and ready to start the day. 

Commuting by bike is becoming more and more popular - research from the British Council for Offices recently found that up to 38% of British office workers would consider commuting by bike if their workplace offered better facilities. But is it possible to switch to cycling to work regardless of what facilities are available?

No shower, no problem
You won’t be surprised to hear that a lot of people at Sustrans cycle to work but you may be surprised not all of them shower when they arrive in the office.

In our experience, with the correct preparation and know-how it’s not always necessary to shower after cycling to work (and please don’t think we’re advocating being smelly at work).  Changing the way you approach cycling to work may be the answer

Our Top Tips
Here are our top tips to help you on your way whether or not your office has shower facilities.

1. Slow down
Cycling at a leisurely pace means you sweat less and could also make your journey more enjoyable. Leave more time for your journey – that way you’ll also be able to spend some time cooling down on arrival, as well as feeling more relaxed. You might even treat yourself to a breakfast post cycle, perfect.

2. Switch to panniers
If you’ve ever had to carry a backpack on a hot summer’s day you’ll be all too familiar with the problems of a sweaty back. Switching to panniers that attach to your bike can be a revelation and you’ll probably never look back.

3. Leave some clothes at your workplace
One way of getting around a bit of sweat on your cycle in is to leave some clothes at your workplace - having a change of shirt, T-shirt, blouse and socks or tights can help keep you feeling fresh all day long.

4. Use products that don’t need water
From dry shampoo to wet wipes, there are plenty of products out there that can help you freshen up without needing a sink or shower.

5. Invest in an electric bike
Electric bikes are on the rise - you only have to look around our towns and cities to see that - but despite their growing popularity there are still some misconceptions, myths and even snobbery surrounding them. One thing is clear: e-bikes are making cycling more accessible to a new audience, people who may never have considered it as a viable option for commuting, popping to the shops or for leisure.

What's more, they're also making it possible for people who already cycle to keep doing what they love most. Give one a go and you might well be pleasantly surprised.

6. Wear clothing made from natural fibres at work
Natural fibres, such as merino wool, are more comfortable and cause less sweat than synthetic materials.

We believe both employers and employees benefit from workplaces with good facilities for people who want to cycle to work, but we also understand providing such facilities may not always be possible.

If your workplace does not have the facilities you need, you could try suggesting an alternative solution, such as sharing shower facilities with a local gym, swimming pool, hotel, or another office building.

Want to start cycling to work? Read our guide to help you get started
Find out our top reasons to cycle to work 

Related content
Article
Commute by bike with confidence
Article
How to start cycling to work
Article
Mindfulness on your commute
Article
Transforming the daily commute: Amy Louise's Story
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)