Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > News > Cycle tourism boosts economy

News
Cycle tourism boosts economy
Cyclist reading map in seaside harbour
The National Cycle Network supports over 15,000 jobs

Cyclist on country lane with thatched cottage in background
The National Cycle Network directly contributes £650m to the economy each year

1
2
18 August 2015
Leisure and tourism cycling on the National Cycle Network supports over 15,000 jobs and directly contributes £650m to the economy each year.*

People cycling on the National Cycle Network for leisure and tourism bring over £650 million to the UK economy each year.

Our research looked at the average amount spent by people on day trips and cycling holidays and found that they both bring significant money to local economies around the country.

We conservatively estimate that people who use the Network for holidays and day trips spend an average of £7 a day, although this figure is likely to be even higher for people who take cycling holidays.

The Network, which celebrates its twentieth anniversary this year, was also found to directly support 15,262 full time equivalent jobs across the services industry, particularly in the food and drink sector where it supports over 10,000 jobs.

The National Cycle Network now stretches to all four corners of the UK and covers over 14,000 miles. The research suggests that popular parts of the Network make a substantial economic impact to local communities and are also important on a national scale.

The Diglis Hotel in Worcester is an example of a business that has benefited as a result of the National Cycle Network, in particular after Sustrans worked with Worcester City and Worcestershire County Councils to create a riverside loop, with a new bridge as the centrepiece.

Steve Pirone the General Manager of the Diglis House Hotel in Worcester, said:

“The riverside is a very important part of the tourism industry in Worcester but until the bridge was built there was no way of getting from one side to the other.

“As a result of the bridge being built and the route being part of the National Cycle Network, we have experienced a real benefit and I’m sure other businesses near the route have seen an increase in business too.

“There’s been at least a 20% increase in our bar and restaurant sales and we also think the new route will increase our hotel figures in the future, as it brings more walkers and cyclists to the area.”

Since the National Cycle Network was first developed, usage has increased year-on-year, with people using it for all kinds of reasons, like using it to get to work and school, as well as going on day trips and holidays.

The economic benefits of quality walking and cycling routes are significant, both from tourism but also day to day use, by reducing congestion, pollution and by enabling people to improve their health.

The National Cycle Network has identified the potential for changing people’s everyday travel.

If as a society, we really want more people to get fitter and healthier by walking and cycling, then we need to make it more appealing. A big part of that is making roads safer. To enable this to happen, the government must provide consistent long-term funding for cycling and walking to be at least 5% of transport spending, and a Cycling and Walking Investment Strategy that contains a long-term vision and targets, in the same way that already exists for our roads and railways.

Find out more about the services we can offer local authorities to help deliver local health and economic benefits
*The survey data on the spending behaviour of leisure and tourist cyclists was collected from 22 sites on the National Cycle Network across the UK. They took place on each site for four days, running from 7am to 7pm where over 2,500 people were surveyed. In partnership with the University of Central Lancashire, Sustrans developed a model that uses the data from these surveys to estimate daily spend per head for leisure and tourist cyclists (£7) and the impact of this on employment (supporting over 15,000 full time equivalent jobs). Combining these outputs with our estimate of the annual usage of the Network allows us to estimate the impact of leisure and tourist cyclists on the UK economy.


Categories: CyclingEconomyNational Cycle Network
Location: UK-wide
Related news articles
Communities across Scotland celebrate with Sustrans
21 July 2015
Celebrations for start of Bay Cycle Way
11 June 2015
Related content
Article
National Cycle Network impact
Impact
Getting Worcester walking and cycling
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)