Shared mobility

The way we choose and use cars is changing. In many of our towns and cities it is no longer necessary to own a car and research has shown for many young people car ownership is no longer an aspiration and a less universal goal, and more difficult to reach. These changes and a series of other influences, are changing the car market.

More recently, patterns of car use and ownership are a response to rising fuel prices and other cost increases in insurance, servicing and parking. The recession had a marked impact on car use, while other factors such as climate change, have led to an increasing number of people making lifestyle changes that reduce their energy consumption and carbon emissions.

    Parking bay reserved for car club vehicles at Clifton Down railway station.

    Pictured is a parking bay reserved for car club vehicles at Clifton Down railway station in Bristol.

Advances in technology, such as being able to book car club vehicles using a smartphone and planning train journeys online, are also part of facilitating a rethink in car use. Pay-as-you-go car clubs and ultra-low emission vehicles are transforming drivers’ relationships with cars and Carplus is keen to facilitate this change.

We are in the first phase of reducing the environmental impact of the car, but in moving forward towards a low carbon Britain, we need to closely consider how the car best fits into policy and strategy in the future, especially regarding rural and urban transport, improving air quality and land-use planning.

Below are some of the ways of getting around by shared mobility:

    Car clubs

    Follow the links to find out how Carplus is involved in car club projects in England, Scotland, Wales and London. Find some of the acknowledged benefits of car clubs for individuals and society detailed here.
    2+ car sharing

    Click here for an explanation of 2+ car sharing and a list of providers, which is complemented by a FAQ and a
    fact sheet downloadable here as a PDF.
    Cycle hire

    Click here for details of UK cycle hire schemes, supported by some of the acknowledged benefits.

