Do it online
Have Your Say
My Durham
 
Search website
  
 Link to homepage
Residents  News & Events  Business  Council
Home  Residents  Leisure & Culture  Enjoy our parks, coast and countryside  Cycling Get into cycling 
Get into cycling
Cycling is cheap, fun and easy to do. If you're new to cycling, just rusty, or you want to improve your health, this page has information to help you.

There are various cycling clubs across the county that are suitable for all ages and abilities. To find a club right for you visit our Cycling groups and clubs page.

Children
Available to all schools in the county, Bikeability (modern-day cycling proficiency) teaches primary and secondary children how to ride their bikes safely on the road. See our  Cycling road safety schemes page for more information about the training we provide or contact your school.

Hamsterley Trailblazers also offer off-road children coaching sessions every first Saturday of the month. 

Adults
There are regular free cycling activities available throughout the county. See below for one that suits you. 

Cycle Durham Open
 Find out where your nearest free weekly led ride is.
Free Back on your Bike courses Open
 Find out more about the help you can get to get yourself back on your bike.
If you're new to cycling and want to know some top tips or need some expert advice, then contact us for a free copy of Bike Easy. While stocks last.

Hamsterley trailblazers
If you fancy off-road cycling visit Hamsterley Trailblazers where they have regular rides across some of the best off-road cycling in the region. 

Why cycle?
Get in shape
Cycling burns an average 240 calories an hour (at 10mph).
Regular cyclists enjoy higher levels of overall fitness.
In the long-term cycling has huge benefits for general health, and reducing the risk of heart disease.
Travel smart
Cycling is a zero carbon mode of transport which improves air quality and has a positive impact on the environment.
One in four car journeys are less than 2 miles. Cycling will take you about 12 minutes (at 10mph) which can be a faster option than being stuck in traffic.
Cycling has predictable and reliable journey times so you can always be on time.
Unwind
Switching from driving to cycling helps avoid the stressful morning traffic jams. The Stress Management Society recommends cycling as one of the best ways of reducing stress.
Taking regular and moderate exercise is a great way of reducing stress while the pleasure of cycling is a great tonic for mind and body.
Cycling can be very sociable too, and a great way to see more of your local community.
Save money
The AA calculates that cars cost their owners on average £2,358 a year before the cost of fuel.
It's much cheaper to buy and maintain a bike than a car and you'll be saving money on fuel too.
You can save yourself money by switching to cycling. With every journey you replace with cycling will bring savings.
Contact us
Related information
Cycling groups and clubs
Cycling road safety schemes
Offsite links
Get Active North East
Bikeability
Hamsterley Trailblazers
The National Cycling Charity
Website feedback
Share this page on Facebook
Share this page on Twitter
Print this page
A to ZABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Contact us | Legal info | Help | Gov.uk
 DCC on Facebook
 Follow us on Twitter
 DCC on YouTube
 DCC on LinkedIn
 DCC on Instagram