walking
works
How walking can help everyone lead
longer, healthier and happier lives
2 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 3
2 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 3
Walking works. It makes
people happy, keeps
everyone healthy and can
even save your life.
That’s the conclusion of an extensive new review, produced by the
Ramblers and Macmillan Cancer Support. You can read the highlights
in this short summary.
We believe Walking for Health, England’s largest network of health walk
schemes, is the key to beating the physical inactivity epidemic that’s
responsible for thousands of illnesses and deaths every year and puts
immense strain on the NHS.
The evidence also reveals that walking brings people together, helps
them feel positive and is a cost-effective way to exercise too.
Problems like obesity can be complex, but we think the solution is simple.
The research we’ve summarised in this guide proves it’s all about putting
one foot in front of the other. 
4 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 5
A message from Kevin Fenton,
Public Health England
Like many developed countries, England is
experiencing a serious inactivity crisis, with life
threatening consequences.
In 2011 the four UK Chief Medical Officers released new recommendations
that made it easier for people to be classed as active. Despite this, four out
of ten men and five out of ten women are still not active enough to benefit
their health. This increases the risk of serious illnesses like type 2 diabetes,
heart disease and certain cancers, and makes it more likely that people
will be overweight or obese. In England 61% of adults and 30% of children
between 2 and 15 are classed as overweight or obese. The associated
health problems of this inactivity are costing the economy up to £10 billion
a year.
The Walking Works report by the Ramblers and Macmillan Cancer Support
examines the impact of inactivity on people’s health and wellbeing and
shows how supporting people to get active through walking can be a major
part of the solution to our current crisis.
It makes the case that Walking for Health, England’s largest network of
health walks, is the type of community-focused, supportive, engaging,
affordable and inclusive programme that can accomplish the change we
need to see and meets the needs of local people. It also shows that not
only does walking combat serious health issues, but it improves mental
health and makes people happier. Bringing together existing research,
facts and figures, the review clearly lays out the problems we are facing
and the manifold benefits of walking and Walking for Health. It shows that
walking works.
Reading it brings us closer to understanding the kind of societal shift that
needs to happen before we truly combat the pandemic of inactivity. The
figures are alarming and show that we need to take action now.
The good news is that there are steps we can take to help people get more
active: life-changing steps.
I urge you all to read this summary of Walking Works, digest the
information, get walking, and encourage and help others to do the same.
Kevin Fenton
Director, Health and Wellbeing
Public Health England
“Reading this
brings us closer to
understanding the
kind of societal shift
that needs to happen
before we truly
combat the pandemic
of inactivity.”
4 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 5
Staying still can kill
Are you sitting a bit too comfortably? The facts show that physical
inactivity now rivals smoking as one of the nation’s biggest
health problems.
Today it’s responsible for 17% of early deaths in the UK.1
In fact, what we’re looking at is an international epidemic. Physical
inactivity causes 6% of deaths around the world, making it one of the top
four global killers.2
Physical inactivity is the principle cause of a huge number of common
health conditions including:
• 10% of heart disease cases
• 13% of type 2 diabetes cases
• 18% of colon cancer cases
• 17% of breast cancer cases.3
But that’s not all. Research reveals that being inactive:
• increases your chances of developing cancer, heart disease or having
a stroke by 25-30%
• can take three to five years off your life.4
Being inactive puts a strain on the economy as well as health. Experts
estimate it could be costing us up to £10 billion a year through sick days,
health care costs and early deaths.5, 6
Getting active saves lives
We know that physical inactivity causes heart disease, breast cancer and
even early death. We also know that many of these problems could be
prevented if everyone began to move more.
The UK Chief Medical Officers say that adults should do at least 150
minutes of moderate physical activity, like walking, every week. Kids
should be active for an hour every day.7
But in England some studies have suggested that only 6% of men and 4%
of women actually achieve this.8
 One in three people don’t even manage
30 minutes a week.9, 10
The simple fact is that getting active can save your life.
We could prevent 37,000 deaths every year, just by taking a walk.11
Being active also slashes the risk of getting these serious diseases
by 20-50%:
• heart disease
• stroke
• type 2 diabetes
• colon and breast cancer
• Alzheimer’s disease.12, 13, 14
“Physical inactivity
has an impact on
health comparable
to that of smoking.”
I-Min Lee,
epidemiologist
Being
inactive can
take three
to five years
off your life.
One in three adults in England
don’t manage 30 minutes of
physical activity per week
Less than 30 minutes
activity a week
6 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 7
And the benefits don’t end there. Being active:
• helps you stay a healthy weight
• increases ‘good’ cholesterol
• reduces blood pressure
• builds healthy muscles and bones
• improves balance
• reduces the risk of falls.
If everyone in England got the message about being active it could
prevent:
• 36,815 people dying prematurely
• 12,061 people going to hospital for emergency coronary heart
disease treatment
• 6,735 cases of breast cancer
• 4,719 cases of colorectal cancer
• 294,730 cases of diabetes.15
Condition Risk reduction Strength of evidence
Death 20-35% Strong
Coronary heart disease
(CHD) and stroke
20-35% Strong
Type 2 diabetes 35-50% Strong
Colon cancer 30-50% Strong
Breast cancer 20% Strong
Hip fracture 36-68% Moderate
Depression 20-30% Strong
Alzheimer’s disease 40-45% Moderate
16, 17, 18, 19
Happy and healthy
Keeping active helps us feel both healthy and happy.
People that stay active:
• get less stressed
• sleep better
• feel better
• have a 30% lower risk of getting depressed
• keep their minds sharp
• improve their memories
• reduce their risk of having dementia.20,21,22,23,24,25,26
“If a medication existed
which had a similar
effect to physical
activity, it would be
regarded as a wonder
drug or a miracle cure.”
Sir Liam Donaldson,
The former Chief
Medical Officer
of England
If everyone in England
was active enough it
could prevent:
36,815
people dying prematurely
12,061
people going to hospital for
emergency coronary heart disease
treatment
6,735
cases of breast cancer
4,719
cases of colorectal cancer
294,730
cases of diabetes. 
6 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 7
Why walking works
Walking is already one of most popular physical activities in the world.
It’s open to nearly everyone – only 4% of us need help to walk outside our
homes or can’t do it at all.27
For most of us walking is as simple as slipping on a pair of shoes and
opening the front door. It’s perfect for people who have poor health,
or don’t fancy intense exercise.
There are lots of reasons why walking is so accessible:
• walking is free – you don’t need expensive gym
membership or special shoes to take part
• you can wear everyday clothes so you won’t feel
you stand out on the street
• walking is gentle, so you’re unlikely to get injured
• it’s fun to get together with friends and go for a walk
• it’s a healthy way of getting where you need to be
• you can do it almost anywhere at any time
• you can start off slowly and build up gradually as you
get more confident.
Walking makes a great ‘gateway’ to the world of exercise because it often
inspires people to try out other healthy activities.
Walking is amazing exercise
Walking may be straightforward, but it’s also effective. The Chief Medical
Officers agree that walking counts towards those all-important 150
minutes of moderate physical activity everyone should be doing.
That means that walking can help people realise all the benefits of physical
activity that we’ve already touched on.
Connecting communities
Aside from boosting your health, walking has positive benefits for the
whole community too.
By leaving the car at home you’re helping to reduce pollution, end traffic
jams and fight climate change.
Taking a walk means you see more of your friends and neighbours out
on the street. Studies show that this can help everyone feel part of the
community and actively reduces crime.28
Is it any surprise that walking is the most popular way of getting around
in Great Britain? Remember that in 2011 only 3% of trips were by bicycle
while 23% were on foot.29
“Walking is the
nearest activity to
perfect exercise.”
Professors
Jerry Morris and
Adrienne Hardman
9.1 million adults in England
 walk recreationally for at least
30 minutes once a month.
This is almost twice the number
that swim, more than twice the
number that go to the gym, and
nearly three times the number
that cycle.
Walk 9.1m
Swim 5.6m
Gym 4.5m
Cycle 3.5m
Number of
people involved in
physical activities
8 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 9
“As a GP running a diabetic clinic without any access
to physical activity options for the patients, I felt I was
failing them. That’s why I started Walking for Health,
to provide a local, low cost, fun, social method of
becoming active that other GPs can also benefit from
signposting to their patients.”
Dr William Bird MBE, founder of Walking for Health
8 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 9
Bryony’s story
I joined Walking for Health in November 2012 to
build up my fitness and improve my health following
surgery to remove a tumour. I’d been allowed to do
some restrictive exercise by my consultant before
this, but nothing strenuous.
Following my surgery I wasn’t able to walk far,
due to being immobile for two weeks in hospital.
A physiotherapist helped me walk slowly down a
corridor at first, which was very hard going. I decided to take it slowly and
do short walks with the aid of a hiking stick so I didn’t fall over, and could
prop myself up for a rest.
I found out about Walking for Health through a friend who recommended
it. I searched online and found there were two very local walks for me, so I
joined a group the following day.
My first Walking for Health walk was really good. I was able to meet lots of
people and found the walk easy going and not too hard for my health.
I noticed each time I went out for the walks I felt stronger and stronger.
After a few weeks I was able to get up the hill quicker, without the aid of a
hiking stick, and my breathing was better.
Being out in the green spaces was really nice and it was also great socially,
as after the walks we finished up at a café for refreshments. I’m pleased
I’ve met so many different people and made such good friends.
Six months on my fitness and health has really improved. I’ve also been
out walking in the Yorkshire moors and on the coast in Whitby with friends.
Walking has been very important to my recovery – it’s helped me boost
my energy levels, wellbeing and confidence.
Bryony Booth, 32
from Hull, East Yorkshire
Walking for Health is the answer
Together, the Ramblers and Macmillan Cancer Support run Walking for
Health, supporting 600 local schemes across England to organise short,
free walks led by friendly, trained walk leaders.
For the last 13 years we’ve made it our mission to help everyone –
including those affected by cancer – discover just how good walking
makes you feel.
Our walks are organised by everyone from local councils and NHS trusts
to volunteer groups.
More than 70,000 people walk with us regularly at 3,400 weekly walks
led by 10,000 volunteers.30
“My first Walking
for Health walk was
really good. I met lots
of people and found
the walk easy going
and not too hard for
my health.”
Bryony Booth,
Walking for Health
participant
10 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 11
 Walking for Health gets great results. Getting involved:
• Inspires people who don’t exercise to move more. Almost half of our
walkers used to do less than half an hour of activity three days a week
until they started walking. 31
• Has staying power. People that walk with us take at least five walks
every four months.32
• Helps people stay active. Not everyone can exercise as much as they
used to. Walking lets everyone step down without giving up exercise
altogether.33, 34
• Is popular with women and the over-55s. Nearly three-quarters
(72%) of our walkers are over 55, the same amount are women.
Both these groups usually have lower than average levels of physical
activity.35
• Is highly cost effective – particularly when compared to the costs of
treating diseases caused by inactivity.36
Bringing people together
Walking for Health is about more than just improving people’s health –
getting involved improves their lives too.
We’ve seen how Walking for Health brings people together to make new
friends. In fact, meeting new friends is a big reason for taking part and
helps make everyone feel good and stay positive.
Many people say that not having a friend to exercise with is a major barrier
to staying active. Walking for Health offers a great way to meet a whole
group of people who’ve made a commitment to changing their lives for
the better.37
Further enquiries
For more information or a copy of the full Walking Works report,
please contact the Walking for Health team on
walkingforhealth@ramblers.org.uk or call 020 7339 8541.
Connect with us on Twitter @healthywalks
and Facebook facebook.com/healthywalks.
Walking for Health has over
70,000 regular walkers and
10,000 volunteers
Walking for Health
in numbers
“We would be out in the
countryside come rain
or shine. It was great
to be doing something
active while making
new friends.”
Allison Gordon,
Walking for Health
participant
10 Walking Works – summary report Walking Works – summary report 11
Appendix
1
Lee I-M, et al. Effect of physical inactivity on
major non-communicable diseases worldwide: an
analysis of burden of disease and life expectancy.
The Lancet. 2012. 380: 219–229.
2
World Health Organization. Global
Recommendations on Physical Activity
for Health.
http://www.who.int/dietphysicalactivity/
publications/9789241599979/en/index.html.
3
Lee I-M, et al. Effects of physical inactivity on
major non-communicable diseases worldwide: an
analysis of burden of disease and life expectancy.
The Lancet 380: 219-29.
4
Wen CP, Wu XF. Stressing harms of physical
inactivity to promote exercise. The Lancet. 2012.
380: 192–193.
5
Allender S, et al. The burden of physical
activity related ill health in the UK. Journal of
Epidemiology and Community Health. 61:344–
348.
6
HM Government. Be active, be healthy: A plan for
getting the nation moving.
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/
Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/
PublicationsPolicyAndGuidance/DH_094358.
(Department of Health, 2009).
7
Department of Health. Start active, stay active:
a report on physical activity from the four home
countries’ Chief Medical Officers.
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/
Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/
PublicationsPolicyAndGuidance/DH_127931.
8
 Townsend N, Bhatnagar P, Wickramasinghe
K, Scarborough P, Foster C, Rayner M. Physical
Activity Statistics 2012 [http://www.bhfactive.
org.uk/homepage-resources-and-publicationsitem/339/index.html]
(British Heart Foundation,
2012).
9
 Townsend N, Bhatnagar P, Wickramasinghe
K, Scarborough P, Foster C, Rayner M. Physical
Activity Statistics 2012
[http://www.bhfactive.org.uk/homepageresources-and-publications-item/339/index.
html] (British Heart Foundation, 2012).
10Joint Health Surveys Unit. Health Survey for
England 2008: Physical Activity and Fitness.
http://www.ic.nhs.uk/pubs/
hse08physicalactivity
11Network of Public Health Observatories. Health
Impact of Physical Inactivity.
http://www.apho.org.uk/resource/view.
aspx?RID=123459 .
12Department of Health. Start active, stay active:
a report on physical activity from the four home
countries’ Chief Medical Officers.
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/
Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/
PublicationsPolicyAndGuidance/DH_127931.
13Department of Health and Human Services
(USA). Physical activity guidelines advisory
committee report
http://www.health.gov/paguidelines/
committeereport.aspx.
14Barnes DE, Yaffe K. The projected effect of
risk factor reduction on Alzheimer’s disease
prevalence. Lancet Neurology. 2011. 10: 819-828.
15Network of Public Health Observatories (Public
Health England). Health Impact of Physical
Inactivity
http://www.apho.org.uk/resource/view.
aspx?RID=123459.
16Department of Health. Start active, stay active:
a report on physical activity from the four home
countries’ Chief Medical Officers.
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/
Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/
PublicationsPolicyAndGuidance/DH_127931.
17Department of Health and Human Services
(USA). Physical activity guidelines advisory
committee report.
http://www.health.gov/paguidelines/
committeereport.aspx.
18Barnes DE, Yaffe K. The projected effect of risk
factor reduction on Alzheimer’s disease prevalence.
Lancet Neurol 2011, 10:819–828.
 19Ontario Brain Institute. The Role of Physical
Activity in the Prevention and Management of
Alzheimer’s Disease — Implications for Ontario
[http://www.braininstitute.ca/reports] (Ontario
Brain Institute, 2013).
20Department of Health. Start active, stay active:
a report on physical activity from the four home
countries’ Chief Medical Officers.
http://www.dh.gov.uk/en/
Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/
PublicationsPolicyAndGuidance/DH_127931.
21McAuley E, et al. Physical activity, self-efficacy,
and self-esteem: longitudinal relationships in
older adults. J Gerontology Series B. 2005. 60:
268–275.
22Mental Health Foundation.
Exercise and Mental Health.
http://www.mentalhealth.org.uk/helpinformation/mental-health-a-z/E/exercisemental-health/.
23Salmon P. Effects of physical exercise on anxiety,
depression and sensitivity to stress — a unifying
theory. Clinical Psychol Rev. 2001. 21: 33–61.
24Department of Health and Human Services
(USA). Physical activity guidelines advisory
committee report.
http://www.health.gov/paguidelines/
committeereport.aspx.
25BHF National Centre Physical Activity and
Health. Making the case for physical activity.
http://www.bhfactive.org.uk/research-andevaluation-resources-and-publicationsitem/371/index.html.
26Taylor AH, et al. Physical activity and older
adults: A review of health benefits and the
effectiveness of interventions. Journal of Sports
Science. 22: 703-725.
27Department for Transport. Walking in GB
Personal Travel Factsheet 4. 2003. Department
for Transport.
28Sinnett D, Williams K, Chatterjee K, Cavill N.
Making the case for investment in the walking
environment: a review of the evidence. 2011. Living
Streets.
29Department for Transport. National Travel
Survey 2011
[https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
national-travel-survey-2011] (Department for
Transport, 2012).
30Ramblers. Walking for Health scheme audit
2012: Report and analysis.
http://www.walkingforhealth.org.uk/runninghealth-walks/monitoring-and-evaluation/
findings-our-scheme-audit.
31Phillips R, Knox A, Langley E. What Impact Did
Walking for Health Have On the Physical Activity
Levels of Participants? 2012. Natural England.
32Coleman RJ, Kokolakakis T, Ramchandani G.
Walking for Health Attendance Study. 2012.
Natural England.
33Phillips R, Knox A, Langley E. Walking for Health:
‘Inactive’ Walkers — Barriers to Participation,
and Activity Substitution. 2011. Natural England.
34Fitches T. Is walking for health, working for
health? Countryside Recreation. 2011, 19: 13–15.
35Dawson J, et al. Perceived barriers to walking in
the neighbourhood environment and change in
physical activity levels over 12 months. Br J Sports
Med. 2007. 41: 562-568.
36Natural England. An Estimate of the Economic
and Health Value and Cost Effectiveness of the
Expanded WHI Scheme. 2009. Natural England.
37Hynds H, Allibone C. What Motivates People to
Participate in Organised Walking Activity? 2009.
Natural England.
Together the Ramblers and Macmillan
Cancer Support run Walking for Health,
helping you get and stay active.
For more details and to find
your local scheme visit
www.walkingforhealth.org.uk
The Ramblers is the charity for walkers, helping everyone to enjoy the
outdoors on foot, while Macmillan strongly believes in the health benefits
of exercise for people living with or beyond cancer.
By sharing our expertise, we support 600 local schemes across England to
offer short, free walks. Our aim is to help more people – including those
affected by cancer – discover the joys and health benefits of walking.
Macmillan Cancer Support is a registered charity (England and Wales no. 261017, Scotland no. SC039907,
Isle of Man no. 604) and a company limited by guarantee (England and Wales no. 2400969, Isle of Man no. 4694F).
The Ramblers’ Association is a registered charity (England & Wales no. 1093577, Scotland no. SC039799)
and a company limited by guarantee (England & Wales no. 4458492).