Menu Search
Home  Ways to travel  Driving  Electric Cars
Electric Cars
Greener and cleaner

The West Midlands is fast becoming an electric region with more charging points being installed than ever before, thanks to projects such as Plugged-in Midlands.

Thinking of going electric?
Join the electric revolution and do your part in improving the air quality in your region while spending less on filling up. Electric car benefits include:

Zero tail pipe emissions
Exemption from Vehicle Excise Duty (car tax)
Extremely quiet
Cheap to run (as low as 2p per mile depending on your charging tariff)
There are number of government funded projects and incentives to encourage more people to take up electric cars and vans. For more information visit The Office for Low Emission Vehicles

Register to charge
All of our points are current part of the Polar Network. You can to subscribe here to become a member of this privately operated charge point network of around 5000 points nationwide. 

Register now
Where to charge
Publicly accessible charging points are available at rail stations and community car parks across the West Midlands.

Rail stations

Bromsgrove
Longbridge
Solihull
Rowley Regis 
Tile Hill
Yardley Wood

Community

Visit Polar Network for a full list of West Midland's community charging points.

How to charge
Before driving out to charge up, remember to check the status of your preferred charging point.

View live charge point status on the Polar Network Live Map

To start the charge:

If the Charge Point has an available socket, begin by plugging your charge cable into your vehicle*
Show the RFID membership card to the RFID reader on the front of the post
The post will then offer an available socket
Lift the door and plug in the vehicle
The charging will start automatically. Notice the LEDs on the post will turn blue (indicating charging)
To finish the charge:

Show the same RFID membership card to the post that started the charge
Lift the door and remove the plug
The door will close and lock shut
Unplug cable from car and stow
* Please note: You should always connect your charge cable to your car before connecting to a Charging Point or as directed by your vehicle's owner’s manual.

Important Safety Information 

Your charging cable should never be used if it is damaged or has been tampered with. Please check that it is in good condition before plugging it into a Charge Point
Plug your charging cable into your car before plugging into a Charge Point.
Do not unplug your charge cable from your car before removing the plug from the Charge Point
Do not force the Charge Point door open at any time
If the door is tampered with during charging or the cable is cut, the power will stop immediately
Anyone who may have difficulty operating a Charge Point should be assisted while commencing and terminating charging
If there are any issues with the Charge Point, contact Chargemaster on Tel: 0330 016 5126

Park and Ride
Thousands of free spaces at train and tram stops.                   

Find out more

Car sharing
Why travel on your own when you can cut costs in half.          

Find out more

Share
FacebookTwitterGoogle+ Email PrintBack to top
 Plan your journey

Stay up to date
Don't miss out on vital information, sign up today and be in the know at all times.







Subscribe
Share
FacebookTwitterGoogle+ Email Print
More information
Jobseekers
Young People
Transport accessibility
Disabled person's pass
Follow us on...
FacebookTwitterInstagram
Swift Pay As You Go
If you pay cash fares to travel, PAYG is the smarter and cheaper way to travel by bus and tram in the West Midlands.

Find out more

Information for...
Jobcentres
Companies
Teaching professionals
Accessibility Terms & Conditions Jobs Media Privacy Statement Contact Cookies 

© West Midlands Combined Authority
