Home 
News 
Blog 
About ›
About ‹ Back
Councils 
Idling 
Emission Testing 
Emissions Information 
Schools 
What Can I Do? 
Contact 
Report Idling
What is Vehicle Idling?
‘Idling’ is when a vehicle is sitting stationary, with its engine running unnecessarily. When this is done without reason it effectively gives the driver 0 mpg in fuel consumption and subjects those around the vehicle to continuous fumes and engine noise.

Pollutants from emissions have a proven impact on our health and our environment. This is something you can stop! With a small change to our driving habits by stopping vehicle idling you can help protect your own health as well as those around you.

Think of this…you would not let a child smoke a cigarette, but most drivers will sit outside of schools with their engines running allowing pollutants to fill the air. Both of these actions can cause cancer and other illnesses.

Does that make you think differently now?

There are times when idling can be acceptable such as on very cold days to provide heat, when stationary at traffic lights or when a running engine is required to power equipment. However it is worth bearing in mind that by switching off your engine wherever possible, you actively reduce air pollution and its effects on you and those around you.

It is worth remembering that some local authorities issue fixed penalties of £20 to drivers who sit with their engine idling after being asked to switch off.

[Image: report-idling-smoky-vehicles]  
Report ‘Idling’ or ‘Smoky’ vehicles
If you see ‘idling’ or ‘smoky’ vehicles contact the Hotline Number 01845 451 888 and leave the following details:

Your name
Your contact number
Location where you saw the vehicle (motorway/road name if possible)
Time and date of idling
Vehicle make/model/colour
Vehicle registration
Any other relevant information.
By providing information that is as accurate as possible, you increase the chance of the owner (of the vehicle) being identified and contacted by us.

Report Idling or Smoky Vehicles Below
Name
 

Contact Number
 

Email address
 

Location of Vehicle
 

Time and date of idling
 

Vehicle make/model/colour
 

Vehicle registration
 

Details of incident
 

 

The partnership works to educate commercial companies (such as bus companies and taxi firms) and also provides resources to the schools within the area to educate all drivers, especially drivers of buses, taxis and school runs. The VEP also provide resources for schools to educate children, teachers and parents. 

Does that make you think differently now? 

To report Smoky or Idling Vehicles contact the Hotline Number 01845 451 888

[Image: Councils]  

© Copyright 2017 Switch off and breathe 2016. All rights reserved - Privacy Policy

Site by Fore Digital