birminghammailLoad mobile navigation


Weather Image18°C
NEWS
IN YOUR AREA
VILLA
BIRMINGHAM CITY
WHAT'S ON
WHO WE ARE
TECH AWARDS
ALBION
WOLVES
NEWS
Why the West Midlands is preparing for a CAR-FREE future
Cities need to plan for a transport system without private cars says Andy Street

SHARE
4
COMMENTS
ByNeil Elkes
16:44, 17 OCT 2017
Enter your postcode to see news and information near you
Community updates, Crime Statistics, Local News & Events and much more...

Enter your postcode
THE VIDEO WILL START IN 6
CANCEL
PLAY NOW
WATCH NEXT
It's this woman's job to get you to work on time
BOSCH DISPLAYS DRIVERLESS VEHICLES AT SOMERSET HOUSE
Get Weekly Politics updates directly to your inbox

Enter your email
Subscribe
See our privacy noticeMore newsletters
West Midlands Mayor Andy Street has urged colleagues to prepare their cities for a car free future.

With driverless cars under development, the rise of cab and car share apps like uber and digital innovation offering more remote working opportunities, it is predicted that people will be less reliant on car ownership in future.

The chronic impact of pollution on health is also forcing cities to reduce car congestion.

Mr Street said cities like Birmingham should be looking to provide less support and road infrastructure for cars.

A driverless car during testing at the headquarters of motor industry research organisation MIRA at Nuneaton.
READ MORE
Pollution charges could be brought in for three Birmingham roads: What leaders have said
“It’s the technology of yesteryear,” he said, “We’ve got to think about the new technology.

“We have to think about how we make the current road system fit for that future technology, rather than expanding the road network.”

He admitted his comments may not be popular in some areas but warned that cities need to be prepared for the advances .

And the West Midlands is currently bidding to be a trial area for driverless cars and is positioning itself as a centre for research into both driverless and low carbon vehicle technology.

Combined authority mayors Andy Street, Andy Burnham and Sadiq Khan meet up at Birmingham's New St Station. (Image: Birmingham Mail)
READ MORE
Which is the Second City? Who cares! Metro Mayors promise to work together
He was speaking on a panel alongside four fellow metro mayors including London’s Sadiq Khan and Greater Manchester’s Andy Burnham.

Mayor Khan also argued for longer term planning rather than the four or five year election cycles which often lead politicians to make decisions in pursuit of short-term headlines.

He highlighted London’s Crossrail 1 project which was planned under former mayor Ken Livingstone, built under Boris Johnson and due to open next year.

And also called the car pollution and the premature deaths it causes the biggest issue facing cities.


Driverless cars could make queues like this a thing of the past
READ MORE
Why people born after 2017 may never need to learn to drive
The mayors were speaking at an event hosted by the National Infrastructure Commission - a thinktank set up to lobby Government and set out plans to improve the country’s transport, broadband, skills, housing and economic growth over the next 30 years.

They are particularly looking at measures to tackle congestion, including investment in rail, trams and cycling, and investment in electric vehicle technology.

Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Weekly Politics Newsletter

birmingham.live
Follow @birmingham_live
Enter email
PROMOTED STORIES
Sponsored Links
Massive PPI Payouts, Issued to the Public (Look Up Your Name)
PPI FREE CHECK QUOTES
Halifax Is Refunding Over £40 Billion To Customers - Check For Your Name
SMARTFINANCES
PrettyLittleThing sparks huge obesity debate with bikini Instagram post
Bristol Post
More than 140K have liked the post on Instagram but not everyone is happy
Sponsored Links
Sponsored Links
People Who Bought A House between 1988 – 2011 could be Refunded £1000s
PPI HELPDESK
Never Considered A Funeral Plan? Read This...
EXPERTS IN MONEY
Distressed teen who phoned 999 to say she had been raped found using drone when she couldn't say where she was
Mirror
Police said the thermal drone was used to find the 16-year-old and guide officers to her within minutes
Sponsored Links
4Comments
Sign In
Sort Comments

353 DAYS AGOSpike1999
It’s not going to happen in Greater Birmingham, they’ll always be cars, they’ll be pollution free though in the near future.
ReplyShare00


357 DAYS AGOHopeC
This is just stupid. No more needs to be said.
ReplyShare20


357 DAYS AGOTarquinFarquar
Without commercial vehicles, we will starve and cities will become mere ghost towns.  People love their cars and love driving their cars.  I love cars too.  My car is my mobile sitting room.  The powers that be have been trying to lever us out of private car ownership as far back as the 1960s to my recollection.  The leverage back then was the magic wand of swinging socialist taxes.  But hey-ho, times change and taxation didn't work and now its the environment we have to save.  Any old excuse will do just to get us out of our cars and onto the buses.  The problem with public transport is the general public and their nasty habits.  My passport to freedom and personal liberty is my car keys.
ReplyShare1 reply11

357 DAYS AGORazz2
nothing to do with the environment. All to do with making money. Cars are a trial and once it works it will be rolled out to lorries worldwide. The big transport companies will save millions in driver wages, even if the tech will be expensive in the short.
It will cause millions of job losses but hopefully we will have managed to survive on mars by then.
ReplyShare11
MORE ON
PoliticsTransportAndy StreetWest Midlands MayorEnvironment
NEWS
ALL
TOP STORIES

BIRMINGHAM AIRPORT
All the jobs up for grabs at Birmingham Airport - and how to apply

ADIDAS
Police worried for safety of missing boy

HALLOWEEN
How to get Disneyland Paris tickets for just £149 this Halloween

EDUCATION
Parents blast school over plans to replace uniform with tracksuits and hoodies
BARTLEY GREEN AND WEOLEY
Armed robber threatens staff with screwdriver in horrifying robbery at Nisa store
ASTON VILLA FC
The latest Aston Villa next manager odds: It's looking like a two-horse race
STRICTLY COME DANCING
Seann Walsh and Katya Jones face Strictly Come Dancing axe 'by lunchtime' today
MIDLANDS NEWS
Watch: Yobs on motorbikes terrorise woman and two dogs - wheel spinning mud into her face
MIDLANDS NEWS
Watch: Police ram down door - and find large 'ready to crop' cannabis farm
WINSON GREEN
Bin men are refusing to pick up rubbish from this road - and residents are angry
JAMIE O'HARA
Jamie O’Hara hits back over claims he 'faces jail' unless £27,457 child support paid to Danielle Lloyd
HS2
What is the HS2 high speed rail line? Your questions answered
NEWS
WHAT'S ON
SPORT
FOOTBALL
FOLLOW US
InYourArea
Discount Codes
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise with Us
Bingo
Buy a Photo
How to Complain
Corrections and Clarifications
Google Survey
Feedback
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Sell Your Story
Bands Directory
© 2018 a Reach plc subsidiary
