Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > Wales > Workplaces > Our work with workplaces

Wales
Cymraeg
Our work with workplaces
Workplace Travel Champions training meeting A Brompton bicycle being carried onto a train  Happy, smiling  staff cycling team 
1
2
3
Our workplaces projects support employers across Wales to empower their staff to leave the car at home and travel to work by public transport, bike, foot or car share.

Most commuting journeys in Wales are made by car, often over short distances. While jumping in the car can seem the most convenient option, it can also be the slowest, most unpredictable, and most stressful. Employers have so much to gain from encouraging staff to travel to work actively and sustainably:

Cycling or walking to work is a great way to keep fit. Staff that travel actively are more productive, efficient and alert in work and take fewer sick days. Discover more benefits to active commuting.
Cycling, walking, public transport and car sharing reduces car parking demand and congestion in the surrounding area.
Public transport makes travel time more predictable, reducing the stress of traffic jams and running late for work. It also frees up the commuter’s time, allowing them to make a call or read on their way to and from work – and it’s often quicker, too!
Promoting sustainable travel will reduce an organisation’s carbon footprint, and enhance corporate social responsibility, achieving a greener, more positive public image.
We have helped many Welsh organisations think differently about travel, including Welsh NHS sites, Lloyds TSB, Admiral Insurance, BBC Wales and the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama. Want your workplace to get involved? Get in touch! 

The Cymru Travel Challenge
In July we ran our third Cymru Travel Challenge, a fun, interactive challenge where employees log sustainable journeys whilst competing against friends, colleagues and other workplaces in Wales.  Here's a roundup of the challenge's results:



 

 


Categories: Workplaces
Location: Wales
Related content
Article
Transforming the daily commute: Amy Louise's Story
Article
Employee engagement
Article
Working with employers
Follow us
     
 

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)