Home
Projects
Safe cycle routes to schools
North-South off-road cycle link
Hayling Billy upgrade
Bikeability and cycle training
Achievements to date
The Cycle Hayling Map
Upgrade to the Cinder Track
Hayling Billy sign boards
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
Community support
The Cycle Hayling vision
How can I help?
Support us
Offer help with a project
Give us feedback
Get cycling
I’d like to cycle more, but…
Bike maintenance
I need help with…
Teach a child to cycle
Hayling Island by bike
News
Other articles
Community support
Cycling for fun
Did you know?
Hayling Billy
Hayling Island
Web site
All articles by category
All articles by date
All events
Map/Downloads
The Cycle Hayling Map
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
About us
Our Vision
Supporters
Who we are
How we work
Our history
Contact us
Search
Post navigation ?  Previous  Next ?   I don’t have a bike
Posted on  January 5, 2013 by   Andy Henderson  
This article is for people that want to start cycling but they don’t have a bike.

If you want a better bike, or you want to start a new cycling activity (such as commuting to work, or joining a cycling club) – we suggest you ask a specific question here.

You’re new to cycling.  You don’t know how you’re going to get on with it.  So you don’t want to spend a lot of money and risk wasting it.  Very wise.  Garages all round the country are stocked with bikes bought on a whim that have mostly been unused.

On the other hand, you don’t want a terrible bike that will put you off cycling for life.  And you need to be safe!

 You have three main options:

Borrow a bike.  Perhaps you know a keen cyclist that has has a old one they’d be happy to lend you (most do).  Maybe you know someone that bought a new bike, but hasn’t used it.  There is also a cycle hire company the island.
Buy a second-hand bike.  You could try: local newspapers, such as the Islander, adverts in shop windows and – of course – Ebay.  The Community Cycle Centre is a group of volunteers that recycle donated bikes, giving them back to members of the community in return for a donation; you can increase your chances of getting a bike from the centre if you’re prepared to help in fixing up your new bike.
Buy a cheap new bike.  We have a number of bike shops within easy reach of Hayling – and Hayling Cycles in Elm Grove is a Cycle Hayling supporter.  Don’t be tempted to spend a lot.  Budget, say, £150-200.  Spending a lot more than that before you know whether, and how much, you’ll be cycling could be an expensive mistake.
Some things to look for:

Size – you need to be able to adjust the seat position so:
Your knees are slightly bent at the bottom of the pedal rotation
You are able to touch the ground with both feet so you can stop safely
Gears – they help a lot to get you going and to keep going once you’ve started, avoid single speed bikes unless you know what you’re doing
Mudguards – you’ll want to be protected from the elements while you get around
Suspension – or lack of.  Suspension adds weight but is of little benefit to casual cyclists (folding bikes are an exception – they need suspension to be comfortable)
Man’s bike or woman’s?  Bikes without a crossbar used to be considered essential for preserving women’s modesty.  These days they can be just as useful to men with mobility issues.  It’s important, though, for women to have a female fit saddle if they are going to cycle any distance – look for a deep groove or cut-out in the middle of the saddle.
If you’re buying second hand, make sure:

The brakes work effectively (if the brake pads are worn, make sure you can replace them)
Gears change smoothly
The chain, gears and gear-changing components are rust-free and not worn
You can change the seat position (freeing up a rusted-in seat post  can be impossible)
The tyres do not look worn
We’d be happy to try to answer any specific questions you might have here.

This entry was posted in Help with cycling by Andy Henderson. Bookmark the permalink.
Comments are closed.

Contact Cycle Hayling    |    Privacy policy    |    Cookies    |    A Haylings BEST initiative
Tweet about us
Proudly powered by WordPress

