Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > Policy > Evidence > Tackling physical inactivity

Policy
Tackling physical inactivity
people walking and scooting
Enabling people to walk and bike for many more local and everyday journeys is one of the easiest ways to get the nation healthier and reduce spending on conditions linked with physical inactivity.

Sustrans research shows that the National Cycle Network saves the UK economy over £160 million each year by reducing levels of obesity. Of this saving, over £22 million is saved from the NHS budget.

Health budgets are under increasing pressure and physical inactivity already costs the UK economy around £20 billion every year[4].

Our research has also shown that if we doubled the number of local journeys already being made by foot, bike and public transport we could reduce spending in health budgets by more than £110 billion over the next 30 years.

Our research shows:

Since it began, the Network has saved the UK economy the equivalent of nearly £900,000 per day in health related benefits
In 2014 the Network saved the NHS £22 million by reducing obesity. That could fund treatment for over 12,000 diabetics.[1] Or pay the yearly salary of almost 1,000 trainee doctors.[2]  Or fund the annual NHS spend on 11,500 people.[3]
By using the Network last year, over one million people met their recommended level of physical activity each week – equivalent to the population of Birmingham.
Our research supports the findings of Active Living Research, a respected US evidence centre on physical activity, which has carried out an intensive review of evidence on the benefits of activity-friendly environments.  Their study shows the competitive economic advantages to cities that encourage physically active lifestyles.

At Sustrans we have the vision, tools and resources to help create active cities and neighbourhoods. Our expertise can help to deliver cross sector programmes which integrate physical activity into people’s everyday lives.

Find out more about:
How Sustrans works with the health sector.
The service Sustrans can offer local authorities to help deliver local health and economic benefits
If you're an MP, become a campaign champion and help us lobby for change. Find out who's already signed up.

[1] Costs minimum £1,800 to treat 1 person with Diabetes for a year 

[2] Average salary of 1st year doc is £22,636

[3] Per capita spend per capita spend is £1,912

[4] All Party Commission on Physical Activity, (2014), Tackling Physical Inactivity – a Coordinated Approach


Categories: HealthLifestylePolicy
Location: UK-wide
Related news articles
Step forward for walking and cycling as Government strategy gets the go ahead
25 June 2015
Related content
Article
Working with the health sector
Article
Working with local authorities
Blog
Active travel in the city of the future
Related links
Value for money estimates from studies of investment in walking and cycling, by DfT
Follow us
     
 

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)