Durham University About Us A-Z Index Emergency contacts Accessibility 
  
Study Here
Colleges & Student Experience
Research & Collaboration
Alumni
International
Greenspace
You are in: Home ? Greenspace ? Travel ? Walking ? National Walk to Work Week 2015
National Walk to Work Week 2015
National Walk to Work Week - Monday 11th to Friday 15th May
The aim of the week is to think about changing the way you arrive at work, to walk in if you can - either part, or all the way - but if you are not able to, then you can also consider taking part in the following:

Hold a walking meeting
Walk all or part of the way to a meeting
Take a walk during your lunch break
During the week a full range of walks are taking place on lunchtimes, including a walk to Wicker Man, Burnhall Wood, Durham and riverside walks along the River Tees, full details listed below. Please note that some walks require you to sign up to confirm attendance as numbers are limited.

Living Streets will also have 'Walk Doctors' present on Monday 11th offering a free 5 minute one-to-one consultation and advice on the benefits of an active lifestyle.

Walk Doctor events:

Give personal advice on how to fit more walking into everyday lifestyles Hand out “walking prescriptions” and supporting literature to help individuals stick to their goals after the consultation Increase health, wellbeing and motivation of employees and/or the public
Are a fun, engaging and inspirational way to encourage people to walk more
Provide you with reports on common barriers to support you in remedying underlying problems
Why not log your miles during Walk to Work Week and be in with a chance of winning a £20 High Street Voucher?
Apart from miles, you can also find out how many muffins you have burned off, how many times around a running-track you've managed, and how many kg of CO2 you have saved into the bargain! In addtion, staff and students who register and log their walks, will be in with a chance of winning a £20 High Street voucher for the highest number of walks achieved during the week.

1. Go to the Living Steets Walk to Work Week website to register

2. Create your own profile (and create your own password)

3. Type in “Durham University” in the Workplace Name box.

4. That's all there is to it!

5. Next time; just log in, enter the number of miles you've done, and give yourself a pat on the back for doing so well!

Lunchtime walks and activities 11th - 15h May 2015
Date

Activity

Time

Location

Monday 11th to Friday 15th May

Self-Guided walk around the Botanic Garden taking in the wildflower meadow and the native woodland. A self-guided trail across the Hay Meadow behind the Botanic Garden. Click on the link below to download the leaflet;

Guided Walk and map of Botanic Garden

Trail starts from the Botanic Garden. (No booking necessary).

Any lunchtime

Trail starts from either the Botanic Garden Visitor Centre or the Park and Ride entrance

Monday 11th May

“Walk Doctor” – Visit the Living Streets’ Walk Doctor for a free 5 minute one-to-one consultation and advice on the benefits of an active lifestyle.

Calman Learning Centre - ALL WELCOME

12.00 - 2.00 pm

Durham

Tuesday 12th May

River Tees Walk - a riverside walk led by Peri Anderson.

Meet at the Sports Centre, Queen's Campus. (No booking necessary)

12.15 pm

(40 mins duration)

Queen's Campus

Tuesday 12th May

Team Durham Walk along roads and footpaths in and around Durham City. Contact Lynn Preston on 0191 3342165 or lynn.preston@durham.ac.uk to be added to the mailing list.

Meet outside the main entrance to the Palatine Centre

1.15 pm (40 mins duration)

Durham

Wednesday 13th May

A "Mystery" walk with Horticultural Manager Steve Ansdell (sturdy footware required). Please note that this walk is limited to 15 people, please book using the following link;

https://apps.dur.ac.uk/tcbs/?mode=details&schedule=8592

Meet at the Botanic Garden car park, Durham.

12.15 pm (1 hr duration)

Durham

Thursday 14th May

River Tees Walk - a riverside walk led by Peri Anderson.

Meet at the Sports Centre, Queen's Campus. (No booking necessary)

1.15 pm (40 min duration)

Queen's Campus

Thursday 14th May

Nordic walk led by Lynn Preston. As this walk is limited to 12 people, please book by emailing lynn.preston@durham.ac.uk

Meet at Botanic Garden, Durham

12.15 pm (1hr duration)

Durham

Thursday 14th May

Walk to the Wicker Man, Low Burnhall Wood, led by Mike Hughes (sturdy footware required).

Meet at the Bamboo Cycle Shelter, Botanic Garden

1.00 pm

(1 hour duration)

Durham

Win a £20 High Street Voucher - log your miles during Walk to Work Week 2015

Related Links
Tips for Walking Meetings
Top Walking Tips
Walking and Health
Living Streets: Walk to Work Week (Click on this link to log the miles you have walked)
Greenspace
About Greenspace
News
Environmental Credentials
Policies, Plans and Procedures
Groups and Teams
Carbon Management Programme and Plan
Biodiversity
Energy
Fairtrade
Procurement
Low Carbon Technologies
Travel
Walking
National Walk to Work Week 2015
10k Global Corporate Challenge 2014
Waste
Water
Environment Week 2018
E-cards
Questions and Suggestions
The University
Home
About
Jobs
Contact Us
Visit us
What's On
News
Colleges
Academic Departments
Professional Support Services
Study with Us
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
International
Course Finder
Colleges and Wider Student Experience
Statements and Policies
Notices
Statement on modern slavery
Freedom of expression
Business Services
Contacts
Business Engagement
Consultancy
Research Commercialisation
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
Analytical Services
Employing Durham Graduates
Our Research
Research Institutes
Research Centres
Centres for Doctoral Training
News and Events
Research Directory
Alumni
Benefits
Events
Login/Register
Volunteer
Visitors
Visitor Information
For Students
Student Gateway
Dialogue Signposts (student)
DUO
Student appeals, complaints and discipline
For Staff
Staff Gateway
Dialogue Signposts (staff)
Staff Directory
Durham University on Facebook
Durham University on Twitter
Durham University on YouTube
Durham University Blogs
Durham University on LinkedIn
Durham University on Instagram
Durham University on Weibo
Updated: 19th July 2018
Comments & Questions
Charitable Status
Disclaimer
Trading Name
Cookie Policy
Privacy Notices