Home
Projects
Safe cycle routes to schools
North-South off-road cycle link
Hayling Billy upgrade
Bikeability and cycle training
Achievements to date
The Cycle Hayling Map
Upgrade to the Cinder Track
Hayling Billy sign boards
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
Community support
The Cycle Hayling vision
How can I help?
Support us
Offer help with a project
Give us feedback
Get cycling
I’d like to cycle more, but…
Bike maintenance
I need help with…
Teach a child to cycle
Hayling Island by bike
News
Other articles
Community support
Cycling for fun
Did you know?
Hayling Billy
Hayling Island
Web site
All articles by category
All articles by date
All events
Map/Downloads
The Cycle Hayling Map
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
About us
Our Vision
Supporters
Who we are
How we work
Our history
Contact us
Search
Post navigation ?  Previous  Next ?   Be Flash, Get Noticed!
Posted on  November 1, 2013 by   Wilf  
It’s great to see more people keeping healthy by cycling.  But in winter, cyclists are even harder to spot among bigger, brightly lit cars and lorries.

Imagine this cyclist without his hi-viz reflective jacket – would you still spot him? 

Most motorists who hit bikes say “Sorry Mate – I Didn’t See You” – SMIDSY for short. Don’t be a SMIDSY victim! That’s why road workers and traffic police always wear hi-viz clothing , which is a combination of fluorescent yellow or pink for daylight, and reflective strips  for the dark, where tiny glass beads reflect car headlights back to them, and really shine out .

Cycle Hayling says ’Be Flash, Get Noticed! ‘.  The latest LED lights and reflectives are brilliant, and cheaper than ever,  Anything is better than nothing, but for the best protection and to stay legal, we recommend :

Hi-Viz  for you and  your bike – fluorescent colours for daylight, PLUS  reflectives to really shine  after dark.  Perhaps ankle bands, reflective rucksack cover, or stick-on strips?
Flashing lights  are twice as visible and twice the battery life (and now legal).
Red lights at rear  - at least one but preferably two  for extra visibility, and in case one runs out of battery without you realising.
White lights in front  - one bright enough to highlight your path (as well as make you visible to others), and again a second one is no bad thing to get you noticed.
Built-in helmets lights  are always with you and harder to lose, so good options for second lights, but not as main lights.
Sticking  to one recognised light brand or type of mount makes fixing to the bike easier, especially if you lose one, or swap lights between bikes.
USB lights  save batteries – charge them up like your phone.
Don’t wait for sunset – put on your lights  any time  in poor visibility or heavy traffic.
Remove lights  when leaving the bike unattended!
Parents – please don’t wait until it’s too late – encourage your children, grandchildren, nieces and nephews – or anyone you know – to Be Flash  and Get Noticed !  Lights and reflective clothing make great Christmas and birthday presents!

Cycle Hayling is happy to help – just contact us at www.cyclehayling.org.uk/ask .

You can see more on the legal requirements at  www.ctc.org.uk/cyclists-library/regulations/lighting-regulations .

More information courtesy of West Sussex County Council below:


 


This entry was posted in Help with cycling, Maintenance by Wilf. Bookmark the permalink.
One thought on “Be Flash, Get Noticed! ”
tim  on December 7, 2013 at 17:35 said: 
Get yourself seen

Contact Cycle Hayling    |    Privacy policy    |    Cookies    |    A Haylings BEST initiative
Tweet about us
Proudly powered by WordPress