Skip to main content
 https://www.newcastle.gov.uk
MyCouncil  MyNeighbourhood
Services
The Council
invisible 
 Search
You are hereHomeParking, Roads and TransportCyclingGetting around
Print Bookmark
Getting around
/sites/default/files/wwwfileroot/parking-roads-and-transport/cycle_parking_webmap_may_18_0.pdfBike Life Report
Newcastle City Council took part in the 2015 Bike Life survey, in conjunction with Sustrans, which tracks the travel habits and opinions of thousands of people across Newcastle and six other UK cities: Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh and Greater Manchester. The report is based on the Copenhagen Bicycle Account, which helped to make Denmark’s capital one of the world’s most bike-friendly cities. Copenhagen uses these biennial surveys (conducted every two years) as part of its planning process to identify areas where cycle lanes are most in demand. It is hoped that the same can be achieved with the Bike Life Survey. For Newcastle, two key findings were that 71% of people living in Newcastle think that things would be better for health and environmental reasons if people in general cycled more, and 63% believe that more cycling would make their area a better place to live. The survey was undertaken in Newcastle over summer 2015 and the full report can be read here - Newcastle Bike Life 2015 (pdf, 1.71mb).

Cycle Maps
Newcastle City Council, have recently produced the 4th edition Cycle Map. The Newcastle Map is split into a Northern Section (pdf, 3.47mb)and a Southern Section (pdf, 8.92mb). To request a paper version of the Cycle Map please email cycling@newcastle.gov.uk or pick one up from the Civic Centre or from The Journey or The Cycle Hub on the Quayside. The other Tyne and Wear Authorities and South East Northumberland have produced maps of their areas, to get copies, contact them directly through their websites or see our list of useful contacts (copies are also available from The Journey).

Journey planner
Go Smarter offer an online journey planner which includes the ability to plan cycling journeys along with walking, public transport and vehicular journeys.

Cycle parking
Once you know where you are going, you'll want to be sure you can park your bike safely. We've installed and are continuing to add a number of cycle stands across the city centre and a map is available to download (pdf, 607kb) (locations are shown on the map with a location number with details on the number of spaces are provided over the page). Most of these parking spaces are plain Sheffield-type stands so it's always wise to bring your own lock. Most multi-storey car parks have cycle parking and some have lockers for helmets, lights etc. You will need your own padlock for the lockers.

Most large organisations will have their own cycle parking, check with their reception desk. If your own employer doesn't have cycle parking why not suggest it to them. We may be able to assist businesses in securing cycle parking if they can provide the space. Please email cycling@newcastle.gov.uk for more details.

Cycle Training
Newcastle City Council offer and deliver Bikeability Cycle Training to schools across the City. Please email bikeability@newcastle.gov.uk for more details.

Problems on your route?
Potholes can be a danger to cyclists and others.  Local councils have a duty to maintain the roads, but we can only fill a pothole if we know about it. All roads in Newcastle are regularly inspected but potholes and other problems can crop at any time. If you want it repaired, you have to report it.

The best way to do this is through Envirocall, the single point of contact for environmental issues within the boundaries of Newcastle upon Tyne. As well as road and footpath repairs, street lighting and traffic lights, you can report problems of fly tipping, graffiti and overhanging bushes. You can contact Envirocall or phone 0191 278 7878. Provide us with as much information as possible about where the problem is so that it can be found and fixed.

Problems with other road users
For serious incidents while out cycling you should contact the police, on 999 if it is an emergency or on 03456 043 043 for non-emergencies. Check the police website for more about how they can help you.

For incidents relating to taxis you can contact us as the licensing authority. Email jonathan.bryce@newcastle.gov.uk.

If you've experienced a problem with a bus driver, contact the bus operator. Take note of the registration of the vehicle along with the date and time. 

Page last updated: 
18 May 2018

Was this page useful? Yes No
Submit
Website information
Contact the council
Browsealoud and Accessibility
Help and feedback
Press Office and News
Privacy Notice
Terms and conditions

© Newcastle City Council

 

Social Media
Follow us @NewcastleCC

Follow us on Facebook