Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > Services > Our expertise > Travel behaviour change in schools

Services
Travel behaviour change in schools

Sustrans helps hundreds of thousands of young people throughout the UK to travel actively and safely to school or to college.

We are working with Local Authorities, schools and teachers to increase active travel to school. Through our school's officer model we implement engaging and effective programmes designed to embed a culture of active travel amongst the entire school community.

Transforming the school run
The school run is a major source of congestion during the morning peak, with as many as one in four cars on the road taking children to school.

One quarter of primary schools are in areas that breach the legal limits for nitrogen dioxide, which stunts children's growth and increases risk of asthma and lung cancer.

Childhood obesity is at record levels while school transport budgets are facing an unprecedented squeeze.

Increasing levels of active travel offers a solution to all of these challenges.

How we can help
We can have an enormous impact within a year, through a planned programme of activities providing information, resources and encouragement - then continue to support the school as it increasingly takes the lead, often through our Big Street Survey or Sustrans School Mark scheme.

Read about the benefits and outcomes of our work with young people in Transforming Young People's Travel (pdf), including case studies from schools and communities, or find out more about how our officers work with schools.

We also have brilliant resources, incentive schemes, guides and events to help schools and professionals working with young people to encourage active, sustainable travel - both inside and outside the classroom.

Active schools guide for school leaders
Active children do better in every possible way. Their mental and physical health improves, they perform better in school, are better behaved and have better concentration and attendance.

That’s why, in partnership with Nike, we’ve helped to create a new Active Schools guide developed specially for school leaders, explaining in simple steps how to make schools more active.

We work with partner organisations to make streets around schools safer for children. This includes improving crossings or building new walking and cycling routes to link schools to their communities and to the National Cycle Network.  We can also deliver a community-led design approach.

National competitions
We run a number of national competitions for schools each year. Sustrans Big Pedal is the UK's biggest school cycling and scooting event. 

Schools in Wales can also take on Sustrans Big Shift - our free to access online challenge which sets targets based on how pupils currently travel to school. Schools can choose any five days and participate as a whole school, in individual classes or in year groups.

Schools can repeat the challenge to improve on their achievements, as well as see how they compare to other schools.

Case studies
Increasing levels of activity on the school journey - Cale Green School
How we helped 4,000 students get on their bikes in Leeds
How we helped Sefton Council mainstream cycling to school
Tackling obesity in Bradford schools
Find out more about increasing active travel to schools.
Contact us to find out more about our work in schools.

Categories: SchoolsYoung people
Location: UK-wide
Related news articles
Schools encouraged to spend School Sport Premium to enable children to walk and cycle to school
24 October 2017
Related content
Article
Travel behaviour change in schools
Article
Increasing levels of activity on the journey to school
Article
How to increase active travel to school
Related links
Sustrans teacher resources
Related documents
Active Schools guide
(6.81 MB)
Benefits of active travel for young people
(1.68 MB)
Transforming young people's travel
(7.11 MB)
Transforming travel in colleges and universities
(1.59 MB)
Sign up to our business newsletter

Sign up to receive our policy and active travel news

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)