Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > What you can do > Use your car less > Walking

What you can do
Walking
shoppers walking
Walking to the shops, school or work builds exercise into your daily routine

family walking in the sunshine
Make going for an evening stroll a family affair

dad and child in back carrier
Walking doesn’t leave a carbon footprint, just your own

1
2
3
Walking is one of the easiest ways to be physically active – it doesn’t even have to feel like exercise. All you need is a comfy pair of shoes, and once you get moving you’ll feel fitter, healthier and happier. 

Walking doesn’t cost a penny, and fitting it into your daily routine is easy when you follow our top tips. 

Fit walking into your daily routine
Ditch the car and walk instead. For short trips to the shops, work or school, walking is an ideal way to get active.
Go for an evening stroll. You could make walking a family affair, starting a good habit for all the family.
Combine walking with other modes of transport. If a journey is too long, why not combine it with another mode of transport? You could walk with the kids to school and get the bus back, or take the bus to work, jump off a stop early and walk the rest of the way.
Make a plan and set yourself goals. Start by walking 10 minutes a day, and build yourself up. Ease yourself in gently, get used to walking a certain distance and then add to it.
Find a walking buddy. If you commit to meet a friend you are more likely to stick to it. Alternatively, a local walking group (often advertised in your local paper) might suit you better.
Use a pedometer or other wearable fitness device or app to keep track of your progress. It’s satisfying to see how many steps you’ve taken, the distance you’ve covered and how many calories you’ve burned.
During your lunch break, go for a walk instead of just sitting at your desk.  
Walk for fun
Walking enables you to explore your local area on foot and get to know your community. Why not set yourself a challenge to walk in all your local parks and walking paths? The National Cycle Network is not just for cyclists and it is a great place to start your walking adventure; use our map to find paths near you.

More reasons to walk
It’s good for your health
Regular physical activity dramatically cuts the risk of developing heart disease, diabetes, obesity and some cancers. It also reduces cholesterol, lowers high blood pressure and is good for our sense of wellbeing.

Walking is a great way to achieve the recommended 150 minutes of exercise a week, and comes with added benefits:

brisk walking burns as many calories as jogging over the same distance
walking is good for your heart and lungs
it strengthens muscles, bones and joints
walking improves your mood and boosts confidence
it helps maintain flexibility and co-ordination as you get older
It’s great for our planet
Walking doesn’t leave a carbon footprint, just your own. And if we all swapped one weekly drive for walking, traffic would reduce by at least 10%. Imagine that. Safer and quieter streets for children to play on and for people to socialise in.

Check out our recommend routes for some walking inspiration
Read our advice about walking with children

Categories: HealthLifestyleWalking
Location: UK-wide
Related news articles
Cycling and walking investment strategy now law
13 February 2015
Related content
Article
Top tips for walking with toddlers and children
Article
Walking safety tips for children
Article
Learn how to ride a scooter
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our newsletter

Sign up to receive our news and shop offers

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)