Skip to main content
 MENU
  Cycling
Cycle training
Cycle riding and maintenance sessions for beginners and experienced cyclists
Want to learn to ride a bike, or to get out on the road? Want to find out how to ride safely around town, with your children or get tips on maintaining and repairing your bike?
Do all this and more with our friendly cycling training sessions!

From complete beginners, to experienced cyclists, there's something here for everyone – even professional drivers who need to get more cycle-aware.

Family Training
Family training
Our bespoke family training provides free guidance on how to safely cycle as a group on the road.

View details Book now
Learn to Ride
Learn to ride
This is for you if you're new to cycling, or haven't ridden for many years. Get the confidence to take the first step into cycling, at your own pace. You don't need your own bike.

View details Book now
Road rider ready
Road rider ready
Try this if you can ride off the road but want to learn the skills of riding with traffic and other road users. You'll learn off the road with others of similar ability.

View details Book now
One to one training
One-to-one
If you already cycle but need confidence to ride in traffic, get personal one-to-one coaching on the road to develop riding and communication skills.

View details Book now
Basic bicycle maintenance
Basic maintenance
Learn to give your bike a safety check, adjust brakes and gears and mend a puncture.
Course available for a £5 fee.

View details Book now
Intermediate bicycle maintenance
Intermediate maintenance
A full day session to build on your basic knowledge, looking in practical detail at brakes, gears, cables and chains, as well as routine servicing.

Course available for a £25 fee.

View details Book now
Safe urban driving
Safe urban driving for LGV and PCV drivers
This is for professional drivers who want to be more aware of cyclists, by conventional training and by having a go on a bike on the road.

View details Book now
Get our newsletter
Sign up for the TfGM cycling newsletter, and get all the latest news, advice and event info

Sign up
 Cycling training
Cycle training
From complete beginners, to experienced cyclists, there's something here for everyone – even professional drivers who need to get more cycle-aware

Find a training session
 Picture of a woman highlighting a map
Uncover new routes
Greater Manchester has miles of traffic-free cycle routes, quieter roads and cycle lanes on main roads around the region. Uncover a new route for your short trips today.

Discover cycle routes
Commute in Greater Manchester
Want to get fitter and healthier, get to work quicker, and save money?

Find out more
Contact usFind a TravelshopAbout TfGMNewsGive feedback about our website
Media centreCorporateCommercialProcurementCareers
AccessibilityCookiesPrivacy policyDisclaimer
 Select Language??
Copyright © 2018 Transport for Greater Manchester. All rights reserved
tfgm.com uses cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.
