
Search Site
Robin Hood Network
HOMEJOURNEY PLANNER
Journey Planner
Explore
Timetable
CARDS & TICKETS
Cards & Tickets
Concessionary
Purchase & Top Up
Pay-As-You-Go Card
How to use your Robin Hood Card
Fare Calculator
Season Card
Robin Hood Boundary
INFORMATION
Information
Maps
Service Changes
Childrens Books
Realtime
Your Bus Stop
Roadworks and Disruptions
Nottingham Train Stations
Park and Ride Bus & Tram
News & Events
Coach Parking in Nottingham
PARTNERSHIP WORK
Partnership Work
Robin Hood Ticketing
Clean Air, Alternative Fuels
BQP & SQPS
ACCESSIBILITY
Accessibility
Shopmobility
Assistive Aids for Travel
Alternative Formats
Travel Safe
Independent Travel Training
Easylink
Nottingham Safety Education Partnership
HELP
Help
Terms & Conditions
FAQs
Privacy Notice
Contact Us
Home
Partnership Work
Clean Air, Alternative Fuels
Environmentally friendly public transport in Nottingham
Cleaner Travel in Nottingham
Clean Air & Alternative Fuels

Nottingham Electic Bus fleet
Nottingham City Council has been delivering ambitious plans to provide a wide range of 'Bus Rapid Transit' features to two areas of Nottingham under two distinct projects: Eco-Expressway to the east of the city and the Clean Air Ways to the west, improving service standards and waiting facilities, reducing emisssions and improve air quality.

Centrelink, Clean Air Ways Project
Nottingham is a compact city with dense housing, a vibrant City Centre and a long tradition of excellent integrated public transport.  It has the highest public transport usage per head outside of London, award-winning operators and a progressive council delivering ambitious sustainable transport projects.

To the south of the City, along the River Trent, there is a growing number of significant employment sites located along two corridors, which lie to the east and west of the City Centre.  Following recent improvements to flood defences, large pockets of sustainable residential housing are also being developed along these corridors, further changing the landscape of Nottingham.

Since 2014, Nottingham City Council has been delivering ambitious plans to provide a wide range of ‘Bus Rapid Transit’ features to each corridor under two distinct projects : 
Eco-Expressway to the east of the City  and the Clean Air Ways to the west.  Ecolink (east) and Centrelink (west) are the branded bus service names along these two separate corridors. 


The Centrelink Clean Air Ways project is the most developed of the two ‘Bus Rapid Transit’ corridors and includes the following features:
Fully electric plug-in buses serving the route offering a quiet and smooth ride with zero tail pipe emissions.
Limited stopping, with fast journey times to Nottingham’s central area - rivaling a car.
A purpose built electric charging depot at the Queens Drive terminus.
An expanded 1000 car Park &Ride (P&R) site with connecting cycle paths, bike storage, electric bike hire and electric car charging.
Traffic light priority for buses at the exit from the P&R site, at the Crossgate Drive junction and also planned at other key junctions.
Virtually full inbound bus priority into the City and planned outbound priority at key pinch points
Real time displays at all stops along the route, with full bus Automatic Vehicle Location (AVL).
High quality illuminated shelters, with interchange mapping and CCTV
Pay As You Go (PAYG) and Season smartcard ticketing and dispensing/top up machines along the route
Interchange with tram stops and refurbished rail and bus stations.
Electric Buses and Service
The Centrelink service runs every 10 mins Monday to Saturday from 6:00am to 7:30pm using 5 fully electric 12m EBUS single deck buses. The buses are supplied by Chinese company BYD, and each vehicle has two battery packs which enable a full service operation under one charge. Overnight charging at cheap electricity rates, takes less than 5 hours.  
The service is operated under contract by Nottingham Community Transport.

Park and Ride site
This is situated directly off Nottingham’s Ring Road providing good car access to motorway junctions. There are around 1000 free parking spaces, together with secure covered cycle storage and five electric car and e-cycle charging points. There is also a good network of dedicated cycle paths to the site from nearby residential areas.
The site houses the compound to charge the Centrelink buses and also a separate compound to charge the electric buses used on the Medilink and several other electric services in the area.

Bus priority
The route diagram shows: 

Virtually full inbound bus priority along the length of the route. Planned outbound priority at key pinch points
Effective traffic free priority in the City Centre via bus only roads – including Arkwright St, Carrington St (Railway Station) Broad Marsh Canal St (planned), Friar Lane/Angel Row in Market Square
Traffic light priority for buses at the exit from the Park & Ride site, at the Crossgate Drive junction and also planned at other key junctions.
Waiting Infrastructure
High quality, glass bus shelters are provided at each stop, with seating, at stop timetable information, forward journey planning information and real time displays.

Ticketing
Improved bus ticketing is an essential part of the project, helping to reduce boarding times and speed up journey times. 
Integrated Robin Hood PAYG smartcards valid on buses and trams, offer single and all operator day capping to give the customer the best price for a days travel. On-street ticket machines are conveniently located enabling easy access to card purchase and top-up.

Dedicated Marketing
Centrelink printed leaflets are provided on-bus and at key locations. Bespoke on-street timetables and onward journey planning are provided at all stops.
A new integrated journey planning app for mobile phones has been introduced with realtime bus and tram times. Working alongside this is a fully integrated travel information website with integrated web journey planner and smart ticketing information.

Need to Know More?
Top up
PURCHASE AND TOP-UP
Find out where to buy your Robin Hood card and how to add credit

How to use
HOW TO USE YOUR ROBIN HOOD CARD
Learn how to set up and activate and use your card on trams buses and trains

Where to use
ROBIN HOOD CARD BOUNDARY
Find out which operators and services will accept Robin Hood

© 2018 Nottingham City Council

Download the Robin Hood Network Journey Planner App: 

Get the app at iTunes
Get the app at the Googleplay Store