This site uses cookies and other tracking technologies to help with our promotional and marketing efforts.
You consent to our cookies if you continue to use this website.
More information › Refuse cookies
OK
Menu
Sign up to our enewsletter to stay up to date with all our news, offers and events. SIGN UP NO THANKS

See what else is happening
Mobike Manchester
Mobike ManchesterMobike Manchester has arrived! You can now cycle around the city with ease and comfort thanks to this initiative bike share system!

Manchester’s Mobikes have been a huge hit so far, with 1000 of them now in place within the city centre. If you haven’t seen one yet, we are sure you will soon! This initiative form of bike share does away with the task of trying to find somewhere to deposit your bike and other hang ups that other bike share system have. Simply hop on, go from A to B and then deposit it anywhere once you arrive, it is that simple. Mobike Manchester is sure to be the hit of the summer!

Getting started with Manchester’s Mobike is as simple as 4 easy steps!

Find A Mobike: Download the Mobike app, and view the bikes nearest to you.
Using A Mobike: Reserve a bike in-app or locate an available Mobike by the road. Scan the QR code with the app to unlock it and you away!
Parking A Mobike: Upon arrival at your destination, simply deposit your bike in a public area, and lock the lock by hand. The system will then automatically calculate your charge for you.
Safe ‘N’ Easy Payment: You can recharge your account by simply topping up in-app and remember to watch out for those free credits!
mobike 2These bikes are designed for the future, they can operate for up to 4 years without requiring maintenance. Their airless tyres means that the worry of getting a puncture is completely removed and the standard chain system has been replaced my a shaft drive, meaning that oily fingers are a thing of the past! They are also offering free credits for retrieving bikes that are located outside of the city centre.

Though you can deposit your bike in any public space, Mobike have allocated initial Mobike preferred locations to leaving bikes. This is simply to make them easier for people to locate.

Mobike’s are at home in Manchester with it being the heart of British cycling. So whether you want to mix up your commute to work or explore the city. Mobike Manchester is just what you need. So sign up and get peddling!

Find out everything you need to know about Mobike Manchester here. Or download the app from both Google Play & the iOS Apple Store now.

 

 Twitter  Facebook
See what else is happening
Aviva Terms and ConditionsPrivacy PolicyBars Restaurants SitemapPizza Express Group BookingsGroup Bookings Vapiano