Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > Wales > National Cycle Network in Wales

Wales
Cymraeg
National Cycle Network in Wales
cyclists going over a bridge in Wales
Whether you're a leisure walker, an experienced cyclist, a family with children, or thinking about becoming a cycle commuter, the National Cycle Network in Wales offers many opportunities for travel, discovery and play.

There are over 1,200 wonderful miles of National Cycle Network in Wales alone,  which carried 29 million walking and cycling trips in 2011.

Whatever your age or fitness, getting out on the Network is a great way to keep healthy, save money, and - most importantly - have fun!

Adventures on the Network
If you want action-packed walking and cycling adventures, combined with brilliant parks, gorgeous coastlines, amazing tourist attractions, fascinating heritage sites, interesting artworks, and great picnic, café and pub stops, then Wales’ Network has something for you.

Following a mixture of quiet lanes, canal towpaths, as well as old railway lines that once carried the raw minerals of the industrial revolution, the Network offers a great selection of traffic-free paths and long distance routes that take in many of Wales’ finest scenery and sites.

Commuting on the Network
Active Commuting is the easiest way to fit regular exercise into a busy lifestyle. The National Cycle Network passes within a mile of almost 60% of the population, and connects with many schools, universities and workplaces - making safe, healthy, low-cost travel to work, school or university a real possibility for many people.

Use our online mapping tool to discover routes local to you, and identify safe scenic walking and cycling routes to your chosen destination.

New Network routes
We have just completed two major projects to create an additional 100 miles of new walking and cycling routes across Wales. Thanks to funding from Big Lottery Fund and European Convergence Funding we have brought the Network within 2 miles of a further people. The new routes are mainly flat and traffic-free, linking to existing routes such as the popular Taff Trail, communities, town centres, train stations, tourist attractions, artworks, country parks and areas of outstanding natural beauty.

Areas that have benefited from new routes include Conwy, Rhyl, Clydach, Port Talbot, Maesteg, Merthyr Tydfil, Pontypridd, Treforest, Church Village, Llantrisant, Ebbw Vale, Blaenavon, Brynmawr, Cardiff, Newport, Caerleon and Monmouth.

Artworks
As well as working with our partners to build routes, we work hard to make them attractive environments. We commission artists to create public artworks, making new routes memorable and meaningful to their natural surroundings. We support our ever growing team of volunteers to help keep the routes in good shape both for people to enjoy and for wildlife to thrive.


Follow us
     
 

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)