We use cookies on your computer or mobile device to help make this website better. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Otherwise, we'll assume you're OK to continue.
Don't show this message again ×

Manchester City CouncilSkip to main contentSkip to navigation
Search this site
Search (e.g. Council Tax)
 search
Accessibility Sign in Register
HomeRoads & transportEnterprise Car Club
Roads & transport
Enterprise Car Club
Enterprise Car Club - Pay for a car or van only when you use it
Vehicles can be booked for as little as half an hour or up to 7 days through the

Enterprise Car Club website or mobile app. Search for and reserve a vehicle at a moment's notice, or weeks in advance at any time of the day or week; Simply unlock the cars and vans with your smartphone app or contactless access card, retrieve the keys from the glovebox (protected with your own designated PIN) and drive off. At the end of your reservation, simply return the vehicle to its original location for the next person to use after you have safely locked and ended your trip.

The vehicles give residents, workers and businesses a greener, more convenient and cost-effective alternative to car ownership whilst reducing congestion.

Manchester City Council sees Enterprise Car Club as an important tool for tackling congestion in Manchester with the offer of practical, cost-effective access to a car when needed, which compliments alternative methods of transport in the city such as public transport, walking and cycling.

The fleet of low-emission vehicles is located in and around the city including the following locations:

City Centre
New Islington
Northern Quarter
Spinningfields
Chorlton-cum-Hardy
Didsbury
Hulme
Withington
Salford
For further information you can visit the Enterprise Car Club website
www.enterprisecarclub.co.uk, contact the Clubhouse team on 0345 266 9290 or email membership@enterprisecarclub.co.uk

 

Was this page helpful?
Manchester City Council
Social media and email updates
 
 
 
 
 
Contact us Site map Emergency contacts Terms & Conditions Complaints Privacy & Cookies
© 2018 Manchester City Council Powered by Jadu Content Management
;