Skip to main content
 MENU
Walking
Picture of people walking

Walking is a great way to get around Greater Manchester. It's free, kind to the environment and good for your physical health and mental wellbeing. A brisk 25 minute walk every day can add up to seven years to your life!

Watch our health benefits of walking video Find out more about the benefits of walking
Rural walk
Plan a walk
Plan a circular walk in Greater Manchester using our 'Get active' journey planner
Plan an urban walk on walkit.com
Plan a country walk with the Ordnance Survey
Sign up to the walking newsletter
Walking club
Find a walking group
Find a walking group in your local area

 Walking Workforce
Walking support for businesses
We can advise you about encouraging walking at your workplace as a way to get fitter and save money:

Find out more about a walking workplace: email walking.works@tfgm.com

A walking workforce is good for your business. Staff who walk to work, or walk during the day, are more likely to be on time, and less likely to take time off.

We can advise your business about encouraging walking - by setting up direct, safe paths segregated from traffic for example, or by installing changing facilities or lockers, and through promotions and events, like Walk to Work Week and lunchtime walks.

Contact us about encouraging staff to walk: email business.travel@tfgm.com

Download the Walking workplaces toolkit Sustainable Travel Choices for Business
Walking to school
Walking support for schools
To make walking a natural choice for children, we can improve the quality and safety of walking routes and other spaces used by pupils on their way to school.

Contact us about the school walking programme: email walking.works@tfgm.com

Also, see campaigns like the Free your feet challenge with our partner, the 'Living Streets' charity, to encourage children to walk to school:

Walk to School Walk once a Week
Various multi-colored images of people working and transport symbols
Do you know what we do for Greater Manchester?
Learn more about TfGM
 
Your new Wigan Bus Station is now open
Plan your journey
 
free bus is here! Travel for free in the city centre
Find out more
 
Find out how Metrolink is performing
Read the Metrolink performance reports
Contact usFind a TravelshopAbout TfGMNewsGive feedback about our website
Media centreCorporateCommercialProcurementCareers
AccessibilityCookiesPrivacy policyDisclaimer
 Select Language??
Copyright © 2018 Transport for Greater Manchester. All rights reserved