 Search
Plan your journey
Journey planner
Disruptions
Timetables
Map and Guides
Travelling to hospital
Our Apps
Ways to travel
Bus
Train
Metro
Cycling
Walking
Coach
Driving
Flying
Travelling safely
Tickets and passes
Ticket finder
Ticket types
Ways to buy
bus Low Fare Zones
Direct Debit
Swift Card
Adult
Child
Students
Day, Family and Group
Disabled person's pass
Older person's pass
Offers
Discount Vouchers
Cycling
Jobseekers
What's on
About us
What we do
Infrastructure
Get in touch
Report a problem
Direct Debit
Swift card support
Lost property
Operators
Have your say
Stay up to date
Travel Centres
Contact Us
Refunds
Lost passes
Home  Ways to travel  Walking
Walking
Here with you step by step
Walking small steps for a big difference
Gentle, low impact and free. Walking is a great form of exercise that’s suitable for all ages. The benefits of this simple activity are often overlooked, but adding walking to your day is proven to strengthen your heart, keep weight in check and reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes.

Some simple changes in your routine can add in those extra steps:

Take advantage of the Short Hop fares (where available) and walk to the next bus stop. You will save money at the same time!
Go for a walk at lunch with a friend or participate in a led walk – a number of organisations offer led walks
Birmingham Walking Groups
Coventry Healthy Walks
Dudley Walking Programme
Sandwell Stride
Walking in Solihull
Walsall Walk On
Positively Birmingham Walking Tours
Ramblers
Get off the bus or tram a bit earlier and walk the rest of the way or walk to your station instead of park and ride
Take the stairs instead of the lift
Walk the kids to school and back and get the family moving!
Consider your daily routine and try to think of some journeys where you could walk instead or even just some spare time that you could use to get out, clear your head and add in some extra steps.

Getting Started
A fitter you, starts with your feet!

The great thing about walking is that you don't really need anything to get started! However, a good pair of trainers will help make your walk pain free and encourage you to keep going for that little bit longer. If you move on to longer walks or hikes into the countryside, you may want to invest in some walking boots and a waterproof jacket.

Find a walking route 

The best route on foot is not always the same as you would take by car. You  have the option of taking aquick route or try something a little more relaxing. Use the Walkit.com journey planner to help plan your journey. Walkit is a free-to-use website and app that’s perfect for planning walking routes in the West Midlands. Once you've entered your start and end point, it will generate:

An optimised route based on whether you prefer the quick or less busy option
A plotted out map
A set of written turn-by-turn directions
An estimated walking time
Journey distance
Calories burnt
An estimated carbon saving
There are a number of other walking routes you can take to explore the area:

Wolverhampton Walking Trails
Birmingham Walks
Canal Towpaths – many of canal towpaths have been recently upgraded and there are so many routes to choose from in the area!
Staying motivated

Just keep up the good work and make walking a habit! Research has shown even a ten-minute walk provides health benefits!

Get your family moving too

Walking the kids to school will help your whole family get more exercise. Living Streets and Transport for West Midlands are working in partnership to help get kids walking to school. If you would like to get your school involved please contact Tom Richards at Living Streets.

Stay up to date
Don't miss out on vital information, sign up today and be in the know at all times.







Subscribe
Share
FacebookTwitterGoogle+ Email Print
More information
Jobseekers
Young People
Transport accessibility
Disabled person's pass
Follow us on...
FacebookTwitterInstagram
Swift Pay As You Go
If you pay cash fares to travel, PAYG is the smarter and cheaper way to travel by bus and tram in the West Midlands.

Find out more

Information for...
Jobcentres
Companies
Teaching professionals
Accessibility Terms & Conditions Jobs Media Privacy Statement Contact Cookies 

© West Midlands Combined Authority