Skip to content
We’re doing some essential maintenance to our website which means that you won’t be able to access some of our services. We’re sorry for any problems this may cause. close alert bar
Derbyshire County Council
Subscribe for updates
MENU 
 
 
 
Search
I’m looking for…
Home  Transport and roads  Transport policy and planning  Sustainable travel and smarter choices
Sustainable travel and smarter choices
We want to help you think about transport and help you move towards more sustainable travel options such as walking, cycling, public transport and car sharing.
Share this page 
Share via Facebook
 
Share via Twitter
 
Share via LinkedIn
 
Share via Email
Persuading people to break the habit of simply getting in the car for everyday journeys is not easy.

While we know the use of a car is sometimes unavoidable it's important to show that realistic sustainable travel options do exist for all sorts of journeys.

This is why we subsidise buses to run where and when people need them. It’s why we have community transport schemes for people who can’t easily use public transport. It’s why we support walking and cycling throughout our county. And it’s why we operate a free car share scheme for anyone in the county to use.

We ask people who live and work in the county, or who just visit, to think twice about their travel choices and to consider more sustainable travel options.

These ‘smarter choices’ are smarter for several reasons as they can:

help you stay fit and healthy
save you money
improve the environment by reducing harmful carbon emissions
lessen congestion on our roads
Recent research, undertaken for the Department of Transport (DfT), has found that an intensive smarter choices programme, over a 10 year period, can cut car traffic significantly. For example:

urban peak-hour traffic could be cut by 21% and off-peak by 13%
non-urban peak-hour traffic could be cut by 14% and off-peak by 7%
nationally traffic volumes could be cut by 11%
For workplaces and developments requiring planning permission, this may mean the development of a travel plan. A travel plan is a document that sets out actions and initiatives to promote modes of travel other than single person car use. It can help to reduce the traffic impact of any potential development, by promoting and enabling modes of travel including walking, cycling, car share and public transport. Our travel plan advice accords with that available from Nottinghamshire County Council.

To provide a balanced local smarter choices programme, we offer a selection of services and information:

A dedicated team of professionals working with businesses, and other organisations, to develop workplace travel plans and to promote flexible working practises.

Access to STARSfor, an online travel planning toolkit. Workplaces can use STARSfor to produce travel plans that help support corporate social responsibility objectives. Developers can use STARSfor to produce travel plans of suitable quality and consistency to assist the discharge of planning conditions. STARSfor is the preferred methodology for submission of travel plans in Derbyshire.

Advice and assistance with complementary areas of work, including road safety, public health and traffic management.

A Sustainable Modes of Travel Strategy which provides information for parents about the work we do with schools and further education establishments regarding the promotion of sustainable transport.

The Derbyshire Cycling Plan has been developed by a range of partners across all of Derbyshire. This high level plan, committed at the highest level, aims to get more people on bikes by 2030. The plan was launched at an event at Derby Arena on 19 January 2016.

School crossing patrols.

Access to a countywide car share matching service. Find out more and sign up at CarShareDerbyshire.

Contact
Sustainable Travel Team 
Tel: 01629 538156 
email: sustainable.travel@derbyshire.gov.uk

Related documents
Smarter Travel Choices - 2MB
Nottinghamshire Travel Plan guidance - 916KB
Also on our website
County Rider
Gold Card
Highways development control
How to make a pre-planning enquiry
Smarter Travel
Travel Smart
Information on other websites
Modeshift Stars 
Department of Transport (DfT) 
Share this page 
Share via Facebook
 
Share via Twitter
 
Share via LinkedIn
 
Share via Email
Tell us what you think about this page 

Derbyshire County Council
Accessibility| Disclaimer| Cookies| Privacy policy| Modern Slavery Act
Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn
© Derbyshire County Council 2018

We use cookies on our website. By using our site you agree that we can store and access cookies on your device. Read our cookie policy.Accept