Travel for Cambridgeshire
 

Search...
Home
About 
Services 
Discounts 
Resources 
Membership
Blog
Contact Us
People lift sharing
Car Share With CamShare
The free car sharing website for Cambridgeshire is www.camshare.co.uk.

Car sharing can be an ideal option for those that don’t live within a distance realistic to cycle, or those that don’t live on a bus/train route.  For some people, car is the only option.

CamShare has over 8,000 members and matches people’s journeys to others who are making the same or similar journeys – so people can contact each other and form a car sharing group, whether it be with two, three or more people.

Car sharing for the commute has many benefits for both the employer and their staff:

Employer:

Free up valuable car parking space
Happier and wealthier and more productive staff
Contributing to reducing congestion – wider benefits for business and commerce
Compliments Corporate Social responsibility policies
Staff:

Share fuel and car parking costs
Reduce wear and tear on the car
Enjoy the social element of getting to know other people
Cut congestion and pollution
Reduce the stress of driving
You can share even if you don’t drive/own a car!
We can assist businesses in many ways to promote car sharing in your workplace, including mapping staff home locations so they can identify potential car sharers in the same office, or running a promotional car sharing event.

Please contact us to discuss.

BECOME A MEMBER
Click here to join today
RECENT POSTS
2018 Annual Travel to Work Survey October 8, 2018
Free breakfast for staff who cycle to work July 25, 2018
Northstowe residents learn basic cycle maintenance skills July 24, 2018
New MotionMap App launched June 20, 2018
Date for the 2018 Annual Travel to Work Survey – 19th-26th Oct 2018 May 30, 2018
TWITTER
@so_mo_co Sorry its a bit late but I wanted to say - your presentation was very engaging and although it was the last session of the 2days you delivered energy into the room!

About 5 days ago


© 2018 Travel for Cambridgeshire. All rights reserved.

Produced by Spirus

