nextbike Business
original bike sharing
Our bike sharing systems
As unique as your city

CONTACT US
CONTACT US
Bike sharing from a single source
We respond dynamically to the needs of smart cities and provide our partners with individually tailored solutions.






Smart bikes for smart cities

Shimano hub gear
From 3 to 7 or 8 speeds

LED back and front light
Both with integrated reflector

FrameLock
With Bluetooth and GPS, unlocking via smartphone

Cushioned seat
Height-adjustable with anti-theft protection

Frame
Internal wiring in the frame and handlebar as protection against vandalism

Mobile phone holder
With RFID reader for Smart Cards and e-tickets (NFC optional)

Fork Lock
With docking adaptor

Air tires
With puncture protection and reflective stripes

Our bike types
We offer 6 different bike types. 3 analogue and 3 electrically powered variants with an high-performance Brose motor made in Germany.

SMARTbike
ECObike
CLASSICbike

SMARTbike
With BikeComputer


ECObike
Our latest model


CLASSICbike
With combination lock

e-SMARTbike
e-ECObike
e-CLASSICbike

e-SMARTbike
With BikeComputer


e-ECObike
New


e-CLASSICbike
With combination lock

Check our video of the e-bike
Our USP's
14 years of experience
Founded in Leipzig in 2004, nextbike has grown to become one of the world's leading manufacturers and operators of bike share schemes.

Cutting-edge technology
Started as a small bike sharing provider, nextbike has developed into a technology-driven company. Today, our bikes and IT infrastructure are state-of-the-art with technologies such as NFC, GPS, RFID, solar energy and mobile payment solutions.


Everything under one roof
nextbike develops and produces everything in-house, from the software to the bikes. This allows us to work quickly, flexibly and cost-effectively.

Tailor-made solutions
All products - from hardware to software - are designed and developed by us and are compatible with each other. This approach enables us to meet individual needs in a cost-efficient way.

Public transport integration
We offer the infrastructure to integrate bike sharing into public transport.

Our bikes and terminals are equipped and compatible with all Smart Card standards. Through tariff integration your customers can benefit from free minutes of usage.

INTEGRATED
Our white label solutions make bike sharing part of your offer.

FIRST AND LAST MILE
Close gaps in the mobility network with bike sharing.

DYNAMIC
Together we optimise the station network and the bike fleet in the long term.

Get in contact with us

ABOUT US
nextbike is leading the way in high quality, reliable and flexible bike share schemes. With over 14 years of experience, we have provided cutting edge innovation to more than 200 cities across the world, including Berlin, Pittsburgh and Warsaw. Our field of expertise is developing tailored and versatile bike share schemes that can be implemented with public transport infrastructure according to smart cities’ requirements. nextbike works in creative and collaborative ways to create business models that quickly become sustainable and profitable.

CONTACT
nextbike GmbH
Erich-Zeigner-Allee 69-73
04229 Leipzig

Service: +49 (0) 30 69205046

E-Mail: kundenservice@nextbike.de

SITEMAP
Contact
T&C
Imprint
Privacy Policy
Career | Jobs
Copyright 2018 nextbike GmbH

