Air pollution in many parts of Scotland is breaking legal limits and putting public health at risk.
The worst affected areas are Glasgow, Dundee, Edinburgh and Aberdeen, but in total there are 14
Councils which have declared a total 32 “Pollution Zones”, that is, designated streets or areas
where levels of air pollution are breaking safety standards.
Why is air pollution a problem?
Air pollution can trigger heart attacks, strokes,
and asthma attacks, and is also a cause of lung
cancer. Air pollution (at the levels we are seeing
in parts of Scotland) can lead to babies being
born with low birthweights, prevent children’s
lungs developing to their maximum capacity, and
has more recently been linked with autism in
children.
We estimate that in Scotland, over 2000 people
every year die early from exposure to air
pollution. That’s more than 10 times the number
of people dying in road crashes. Air pollution is
like passive smoking in the sense that poor air
quality is inflicted upon us.
There was a European legal deadline of 2010 for
countries to achieve safe air quality levels across
all areas, and this deadline was broken and
continues to be broken in Glasgow, Edinburgh,
Aberdeen, and Dundee. In April 2015 the UK
Supreme Court ruled that levels of air pollution
across the UK including in Scotland were illegal
and ordered that immediate action be taken to fix
the problem. Scotland was ordered to draw up a
new Air Quality Plan before the end of this year to
show how it will meet legal limits. The Scottish
Government promises that its recently published
“Cleaner Air for Scotland” Strategy will deliver the
the legal limits.
Who is affected?
Everyone is affected by air pollution: it shaves an
average of 7-8 months off of everybody’s life
expectancy in the UK. But people living in urban
areas and close to busy roads breathe in higher
levels of pollution.
Children are affected worse than others because
their lungs are smaller and are still developing.
People with breathing and heart conditions are
affected more than others, as well as the elderly,
and people living in poverty.
That is why air pollution is a social justice issue
as well as an environmental issue.
How can we reduce air pollution?
80% of urban pollution comes from traffic: fumes
pumped out by cars, lorries, and buses contain
toxic gases and particles which can damage
health.
So the Government and local councils must
reduce traffic volumes and improve vehicle
emissions standards to save lives and protect
health. They must:
(1) Introduce a network of Low Emission Zones in
Scottish Cities by 2018: Low Emission Zones
are areas in city centres where the most
polluting vehicles are banned or must pay a
fine if they enter. They have been shown to
reduce pollution in many European cities and
there is even one in London, which is soon to
be upgraded, but as yet there are none in
Scotland. Glasgow City Council has promised
a Low Emission Zone on and off, but has
never introduced one.
(2) Get people walking and cycling: In
Copenhagen, 36% of trips are by bike; the
Scottish average is under 2%, and a big
barrier is that there are not enough proper
cycle paths and so people don’t feel safe and
welcome to cycle. The Scottish Government
and local Councils must spend at least 10% of
their transport budgets on active travel (at the
moment, less than 2% of the national
transport budget is spent on walking and
cycling);
(3) Improve Public Transport: Buses and trains
are very much part of the solution to air
pollution – for every person on a bus, that is
potentially one less car on the road, meaning
less congestion and less pollution overall. The
Government needs to introduce an integrated
Air pollution in Scotland
ticketing system so you can use one ticket for
all journeys made by public transport.
As well as saving hundreds of lives, which is the
urgent priority, improving transport can also:
(1) Tackle climate change: at the moment, the
transport sector makes up a quarter of
Scotland’s total greenhouse gas emissions,
and that proportion is gradually rising, not
falling. Scotland is not meeting its Climate
Change targets so tackling transport will help
it.
(2) Help the economy and the NHS: The cost of
air pollution to the Scottish economy, in terms
of days lost at work and costs to the NHS,
could be as much as £2billion every year.
Spending more money on tackling air pollution
would therefore pay for itself.
(3) Boost active lifestyles: Scotland has one of
the worst rates of obesity in Europe (although
air pollution kills ten times more people than
obesity). If there were more (and better) cycle
paths, then people would be able to make
healthier lifestyle choices.
What is Friends of the Earth Scotland
doing about air pollution?
We are:
• Making the Government publicly accountable
through strong media pressure: We publish
regular data showing what the levels of air
pollution are looking like in Scotland. For four
years running we have revealed Scotland’s
most polluted streets in January, showing that
pollution levels were well over the legal limits
in many Scottish streets, with Edinburgh’s St
John’s Road Scotland’s most polluted streets.
• Pushing for the strongest possible delivery of
“Cleaner Air for Scotland”. In November 2015
the Scottish Government published a new
clean air plan. We are pushing for that plan to
be strengthened by committing to Low
Emission Zones by 2018, through lobbying,
media work, and extensive discussions with
key architects of the plan.
We want the plan to have funding attached to
it to support local councils to implement strong
measures to tackle air pollution.
• Changing local transport strategies: We
successfully lobbied for clean air to be
included as a key objective in Edinburgh
Council’s Local Transport Strategy. Glasgow
Council’s City Centre Transport Strategy now
talks a lot more about improving air quality,
but there is room for improvement.
• Measuring pollution levels for ourselves: We
did our own analysis of air pollution levels in
Glasgow to reveal that traffic levels really do
affect air pollution.
We’re campaigning for clean air using a range of
tactics, from meeting with Councillors, through to
collecting petition signatures, through to standing
on Scotland’s most polluted street and posing in
gas masks. Staff, our members, and volunteers
and members of the public have all participated to
make this happen.
What can I do about it?
• Contact your MSPs and local Councillors to
let them know about your concerns. You can
find out who they are and their contact details
at https://www.writetothem.com. You may
wish to say if you live or work in a Pollution
Zone, and how you feel personally affected.
• You can find out whether you live in a
declared Pollution Zone by visiting
http://www.scottishairquality.co.uk/laqm/aqma
• If you are worried about how air pollution is
affecting your health, then you can sign up to
the Government’s “Know and Respond”
service to receive alerts about when air
pollution is high: www.scottishairquality.co.uk
for more details.
• Subscribe to Friends of the Earth Scotland’s
air pollution mailing list for regular campaign
updates and ways to get involved:
foes.do/1ENXLQZ