Liftshare - travel together
 Sign in
Any questions?
From offering a carshare to contacting other members and everything in between, our FAQs are here to help
About car sharing
Who are Liftshare?
Liftshare are the UK's leading car share provider. Based in Norwich with a small team, Liftshare has been providing a car share platform for 20 years. As a Social Enterprise, we offer our car sharing platform for free to our users, as well as working with 900 clients across the UK to provide individual car share platforms to employers. You may have also seen us represented at festivals and public events! Liftshare are the first car share platform to be awarded with the Trust Seal.

What is car sharing?
Car sharing is when there is more than one occupant in a private car. We all share cars regularly, with our friends and family, without thinking about it. But there are often times when a driver has empty seats simply because they don't know anyone who needs a lift or they might not be aware of the benefits of sharing.

Liftshare enables organised car sharing by connecting people travelling in the same direction so they can arrange to travel together and share the costs, whilst reducing congestion and pollution at the same time.

How can I get involved?
The service is available to anyone over 18. Commuters, students, football supporters, festival-goers, tourists, employees - anyone!

Joining the scheme is simple and completely FREE. All you have to do is register your details and then activate your account. This is done by simply clicking on the link that we send to you in the account activation email.

If you haven't already added a journey, this is the time to do it. Whether you're driving somewhere or don't have a car and are looking for a lift- register your journey as a driver or a passenger to maximise your chances of finding a match.

Once you've registered your journey, you will be presented with other journeys matching yours. When you have found a suitable match from the results, you can then contact the member(s) using our internal messaging system and then confirm that you're sharing.

What are the benefits of sharing a car?
If you're a driver, by sharing your car you can split the cost of your journey and reduce your carbon footprint.

Sharing a car:

Reduces the costs of travelling
Undercuts the cost of nearly all forms of motorised transport
Cuts congestion and pollution
Reduces parking problems
Is a great way of networking and making new friends
Don't just take it from us though, find out what our members have to say about why they love car sharing here.

When can I share a car?
Any journey you take is appropriate for sharing, whether it be one-off or a regular commute. Journeys you may consider adding to Liftshare:

Getting to and from work
Getting to and from university
Travelling to a festival, big event or show
Going to the match at the weekend
Doing the weekly shop
Or simply visiting friends
If you're a driver, you may be helping someone by offering the available seats in your car, even on the shortest journeys.

What are the costs of car sharing?
Liftshare calculates a suggested contribution per passenger for your journey based on the length of your trip and using HM Revenue and Customs Approved Mileage Payment Allowance. Drivers can adjust the price within a capped window, to ensure passenger costs offset real costs and no profit is made - therefore not invalidating your car insurance. The contribution set by the driver using this system is fixed, making it simple and transparent for everyone involved.

What are the legal and insurance implications of car sharing?
The Public Passenger Vehicle Act (1981 Section 1(4)) outlines the rules that govern car sharing. Passenger contributions should be arranged before travel and should not exceed the running costs (including wear and depreciation) of the vehicle for the trip. Liftshare calculates a suggested price per passenger for your journey based on the length of your trip and using HM Revenue and Customs Approved Mileage Payment Allowance.

In most countries, insurers state that car sharing will not affect an individual's car insurance e.g. the Association of British Insurers clearly states that car sharing won't affect the insurance of their members so long as a profit isn't made: "All ABI motor insurers have agreed that if your passengers contribute towards your running costs your insurance cover will not be affected, as long as lifts are given in a vehicle seating eight passengers or less. This agreement does not apply if you make a profit from payments received or if carrying passengers is your business" (Source: ABI 2012)

Over 300 insurance providers are members of the ABI, accounting for about 95% of the motor insurance market in the UK. Drivers with any concerns, however, should check with their own insurance company as terms and conditions may vary between insurance providers over time.

Do I need a car to car share?
No, many people are happy to offer lifts in exchange for sharing the fuel costs. On the Liftshare platform you can register your journey 'as a passenger' if you don't have a car. If you cycle or walk to work, it's always good to find a car share partner just in case one day you need a lift. If you own a car you may want to alternate the driving on a regular commute, or use Liftshare on a rainy day, for example if your car goes in for MOT.

How to be a good car share partner!
Like any successful relationship, car sharing requires respect, good communication and a little bit of give and take! Here are some top etiquette tips that our members recommend:

Be reliable. If you agree to meet at 8am, be there at 8am. Especially if you're sharing a commute. People often have very little flexibility before they end up being late for work;
Communication is key. If you are going to be unavoidably delayed, let your sharer know (as far in advance as possible). Keeping your tone polite and friendly always helps.
Flexibility is important too, though. Sometimes you or your sharer will have to stay a bit late at work unexpectedly – but warn each other whenever you think this might be the case.
Want to eat in the car? Just check your driver/passenger doesn't mind before you unwrap that burger! Drivers also have the opportunity to say whether they're happy with this when they add their journey;
Don't assume that everyone loves ACDC or Wagner. You both need to be comfortable with the music on your journey, so discuss your preferences. Most people will have an area of shared taste.
If the car is yours:
Keep it acceptably clean
Drive considerately
Make your passenger(s) feel welcome
If you're the passenger:
Ask before adjusting the controls (e.g. radio or air con)
Don't smoke without checking if it's ok first
Offer to pay before being asked. Money can be an awkward topic. It's easiest to agree contributions (and when payment(s) will take place) in advance, and that's why the system presents a suggested contribution for each trip.
Be willing to meet before your first share if your driver/passenger feels more comfortable doing that.
It can appear unfriendly if you spend the journey on your mobile, chatting to friends or making business calls. And it can be distracting to the driver too.
Some people are great first thing in the morning; others need time to acclimatise themselves to the new day! Be sensitive about your car share partner's preferences for silence or chat (as they should be about yours).
Always reply to any requests to share that you receive from other members, no matter what the situation is. Even if you can't make that journey, the other person will be waiting for an answer from you, so please let them know so they can arrange alternative travel.
 Sharing Economy UK Trust Seal Logo
Facebook
 
Twitter
 
Google+
 
YouTube
 
Linked In
© 2018 Liftshare.com. All rights reserved.