Skip to main content
The Guardian - Back to home
Subscribe to The 
Guardian
Contribute Search jobs Sign in
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle

News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle

Search
What term do you want to search?Search with google
Make a contribution
Subscribe
UK edition
Jobs
Dating
Holidays
Masterclasses
Digital Archive
Patrons
The Guardian app
Video
Podcasts
Pictures
Newsletters
Today's paper
Inside the Guardian
The Observer
Guardian Weekly
Professional networks
Crosswords
Guardian Masterclasses
Facebook
Twitter
Money  
Property
Pensions
Savings
Borrowing
Careers
Cycling
Two wheels good: a beginner's guide to commuting by bike
Keen to avoid overcrowded buses and tubes and arrive to work brimming with endorphins? Here are some tips to cycling to work, safely and stylishly

Jo Caird

Sun 17 Sep 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Thu 24 May 2018 16.37 BST
Shares
385
Comments
1,334
 young woman commuting by bike
 Drivers will see you more easily in bright clothes but Lycra is optional. Photograph: Alamy
Have you ever noticed how cheerful your cycling colleagues are when they arrive at work in the morning? That’s because their commute is quicker and cheaper, they are full of endorphins from the exercise, and they have avoided being crammed on to hot, overcrowded public transport.

The good news is it’s actually very easy to follow their lead. Commuting by bike is an intimidating prospect for a lot of people, but it shouldn’t be. A surprisingly small amount of kit is required, starting, unsurprisingly, with a bicycle.

If you own one already, use that. Just make sure you check that there is air in the tyres and that the brakes are in good condition, particularly if you haven’t ridden it recently. Ask a cycling buddy to help, book it in for a service at your local bike shop, or find a tutorial on YouTube – basic bike maintenance is easy, even for total beginners.


'I do it for the triumph': can your bike commute compare to these five stories?
 Read more
If you don’t own a bike, consider a local cycle hire scheme. With 11,500 bikes, London’s Santander Cycles is the biggest in the country, but bikeshare systems are spreading, from nextbike in Glasgow, which is expanding this autumn, to Mobike and Ofo, which launched this summer in Manchester and Cambridge respectively and are set to expand further.

The government’s Cycle to Work scheme, meanwhile, offers big savings on the price of a new bike: your employer buys the bicycle, which you then “hire” from them through salary sacrifice (the savings come from the fact that you’re not paying tax and NI on the fees), and you buy it outright at the end of the 12-month hire period.

Once you have your bike sorted, there are a few other things to consider, in terms of clothing, accessories, and staying safe on the road. Front and back lights are a must – USB-chargeable ones avoid the hassle of changing batteries and are more environmentally friendly.

If you choose to wear a helmet, brands like Bern, Sawako and Bobbin specialise in stylish models you won’t be embarrassed to be seen in. Helmet hair is unavoidable, but a can of dry shampoo in your desk drawer solves that problem. A pack of biodegradable baby wipes are also handy if you can’t shower at work.

Drivers will see you more easily in bright clothes but there is no need to invest in a wardrobe full of Lycra. Wear whatever is comfortable – although long floaty skirts or wide-legged trousers are best avoided as they can get caught in the chain. Slip-on shoes can be hard to pedal in too, but pretty much anything else will work just fine. To avoid getting mucky en route, make sure your bike is fitted with mudguards, and if your workwear is too restrictive to cycle in, consider leaving a couple of outfits at the office that you can change into. A pair of padded shorts, though not essential, will make long commutes more comfortable.


How much could commuter cycling increase in your part of England?
 Read more
Panniers or a basket are easy to fit and convenient to use. A rucksack gives more flexibility, but it’s no fun arriving at work with a sweaty back and sore shoulders. It’s good to get into the habit of carrying a puncture repair kit and bike pump, particularly if your commute takes you through sparsely populated areas – in big cities you are probably OK without a repair kit, given the number of friendly independent bike shops that provide free-to-use pumps. Another invaluable bit of kit are bone-conducting headphones that allow you to listen to music or podcasts as you cycle but still hear everything around you.

Your first commute can be scary, but advance planning helps. A route planning app like CycleStreets provides three options to choose from: the fastest route, the quietest route, or a balance of the two. Do a practice run on a day when you are not in a hurry, ideally not at rush hour, so you know what to expect, and take it easy the first few times you cycle to and from work. Or consider breaking up a long commute at first – cycling part of the way, leaving your bike at a station and taking public transport for the rest of the journey.

There is no right way to commute by bike, and it’s not all or nothing. Cycling to work even once a twice a week will still save you time, make you healthier and open your eyes to aspects of your town or city you never noticed before.

Since you’re here…
… we have a small favour to ask. More people are reading The Guardian’s independent, investigative journalism than ever but advertising revenues across the media are falling fast. And unlike many news organisations, we haven’t put up a paywall – we want to keep our reporting as open as we can. So you can see why we need to ask for your help.

The Guardian is editorially independent, meaning we set our own agenda. Our journalism is free from commercial bias and not influenced by billionaire owners, politicians or shareholders. No one edits our editor. No one steers our opinion. This is important because it enables us to give a voice to the voiceless, challenge the powerful and hold them to account. It’s what makes us different to so many others in the media, at a time when factual, honest reporting is critical.

If everyone who reads our reporting, who likes it, helps to support it, our future would be much more secure. For as little as £1, you can support the Guardian – and it only takes a minute. Thank you.

Support The Guardian
Paypal and credit card
Topics
Cycling
Work & careers
 
Transport
 
Health
 
Transport policy
 
features
Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Google+
more on this story
 
Pimp my ride: readers reveal the secrets of their bike modifications
17 Sep 2017
103
Pimp my ride: readers reveal the secrets of their bike modifications
 
The 'miracle pill': how cycling could save the NHS
17 Sep 2017
353
The 'miracle pill': how cycling could save the NHS
 
Chris Boardman: 'Energy gel? I'd rather have a sandwich'
16 Sep 2017
Chris Boardman: 'Energy gel? I'd rather have a sandwich'
 
Make tracks: ride the world's newest cycling routes
16 Sep 2017
Make tracks: ride the world's newest cycling routes
'Pure inspiration': our writers pick their favourite cycle rides
17 Sep 2017
70
'Pure inspiration': our writers pick their favourite cycle rides
On your bike! Why Britain needs to do more to get children cycling
16 Sep 2017
On your bike! Why Britain needs to do more to get children cycling
What's your favourite road to cycle on?
17 Sep 2017
What's your favourite road to cycle on?
Rise of the ebike: how going electric could revolutionise your ride
16 Sep 2017
Rise of the ebike: how going electric could revolutionise your ride
comments (1334)
Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion.

Guardian Pick
I commuted by bicycle for many years and over many different distances and terrains. The bike is a lot less important than it's condition. The clothes are a LOT more important than you might think. Lights, bell, panniers and repair kit+knowledge are mandatory. I wouldn't bother commuting by bike unless the journey was 30 minutes or more. Your employer's support and work facilities can make a massive difference to your bicycle survival and persona…

Jump to comment
 
Dan Johnson
17 Sep 2017
39
40
 
Guardian Pick
I'd add to the list a pair of gloves. Fingerless in the summer and full length in the winter. Cycling with cold, blistered hands is pretty misearble

Jump to comment
 
jonatton_yeah
17 Sep 2017
67
68
  View more comments
Most viewed
Money  
Property
Pensions
Savings
Borrowing
Careers
back to top

search jobs
dating
make a contribution
subscribe
guardian labs
about us
work for us
advertise with us
contact us
help
terms & conditions
privacy policy
cookie policy
securedrop
digital newspaper archive
complaints & corrections
all topics
all contributors
modern slavery act
facebook
twitter
© 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
