Homepage
Accessibility links
Skip to contentAccessibility Help
Sign in
Notifications
News
Sport
Weather
More
Search the BBC
Search
Search the BBC
News BBC News Navigation
Home
UK
selected
World
Business
Politics
Tech
Science
Health
 More sections
Wales
selected
Wales Politics
Wales Business
North West
North East
Mid
 More sections
'Over-reliance' on cars in Wales threatens carbon target
26 June 2018
   comments Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share
Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
The sale of new petrol and diesel cars in the UK will be banned from 2040
People rely too much on cars and Wales faces failing to hit carbon emission targets as a result, a report has said.

Emissions must by slashed by at least 80% by 2050 under targets set in the Environment (Wales) Act 2016.

But a report by the Institute of Welsh Affairs (IWA) said buses were in "serious long-term decline" and rail only covered a small area.

The Welsh government said it was "committed to tackling decarbonisation" and would consider the recommendations.

Data from the 2011 census said 84% of the distance covered by people on personal journeys was by car.

The report said travelling in Wales could be challenging as the "topography, history and economic development have not been conducive to the development of a cohesive network that links people and communities".

It also acknowledged data had been hard to come by as there had been no Wales-specific national travel survey since 2013 when responsibility was transferred from Westminster and Wales dispensed with it.

However, report author Chris Roberts said: "Transport in Wales is dominated by the car, more than in any other region or nation in the UK.

"Given that the sale of new petrol and diesel cars is to be banned from 2040, there is a clear need for managed change in Wales' transport system."

Living on Wales' most polluted street
Commuters on the Tube asked to give up seats
Will the electric plane take off?
Image copyrightTFW
Image caption
The report welcomed the announced on the South Wales Metro
He said despite efforts to encourage more people to cycle, numbers were static or declining.

Department for Transport figures showed journeys on buses in Wales fell from 123 million in 2004-05 to 100 million in 2016-17, along with about 21 million rail journeys in 2016-17.

The report was being written as the new South Wales Metro announcement was made and "warmly welcomes" the plans.

However, it said details other than those centred around heavy rail "remain quite vague" and the scheme "will only function effectively if it employs buses as well as rail".

A spokeswoman said the Welsh Government had been proactive in supporting hydrogen technology and has announced an extra £60m for its active travel plan.

She added: "The recommendations put forward in this report will be taken into consideration alongside the excellent work we are already undertaking in this area as we plan for a decarbonised future."

Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Recommendations include:

A default 20mph zone in built-up areas, with exemptions allowed
Transport for Wales to prioritise integrating buses into the South Wales Metro
Taking steps towards a green bus fleet "with the utmost urgency"
Making sure new Metro trains have adequate space for bikes
View comments
Related Topics
Greenhouse gas emissionsHydrogen vehicles
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
More on this story
Wales 'lagging behind' rest of UK on 20mph streets
16 June 2018
KeolisAmey reveal new-look Wales trains and services
4 June 2018
No increase in cycling in Wales despite active travel law
24 May 2018
Related Internet links
Institute of Welsh Affairs
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites

Wales
'Community grieving' after crash deaths
29 October 2018
 From the section Wales
Full article 'Community grieving' after crash deaths
Welsh Government awaits extra cash news
29 October 2018
 From the section Wales 37 comments
Full article Welsh Government awaits extra cash news
Boy among Pride of Britain winners
29 October 2018
 From the section Wales
Full article Boy among Pride of Britain winners
Top Stories
Wife and son visit Leicester City crash site
Leicester City's first team and youth squad are also at the King Power Stadium to pay their respects.

15 minutes ago
Angela Merkel to step down in 2021
12 minutes ago
Brexit 'won't affect Budget spending plans'
1 hour ago
Features
Helicopter crash tragic end to fairytale
 
‘The SOS in my Halloween decorations’
 
Brazil swing to right brings hope and fear
VIDEO
Dad creates VR world to help daughter
 
How could a brand new plane crash?
 
A stark choice facing President Trump
Who's in the driving seat for the pre-Brexit Budget?
 
How to navigate the crazy world of Halloween costumes
 
Reality Check: How many rough sleepers are there?
Elsewhere on the BBC
Little Drummer Girl
The stylish adaptation of John Le Carres novel

Full article Little Drummer Girl
Daily news briefing direct to your inbox
Sign up for our newsletter

Full article Daily news briefing direct to your inbox
Most Read
1
Leicester City helicopter crash: Owner's wife and son visit stadium
2
'Woman blows herself up' in Tunis
3
Budget 2018 preview
4
Lion Air: How could a brand new plane crash?
5
Lion Air crash: Boeing 737 plane crashes in sea off Jakarta
6
Brexit won't affect Budget plans to 'end' austerity, says No 10
7
'Controlling bully' gets 23 years for Haringey wife murder
8
The Simpsons producer responds to claims Apu is leaving
9
Angela Merkel to step down as German chancellor in 2021
10
Newtownards: Group dressed as KKK members is 'hate incident'
Why you can trust BBC News
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
Bitesize
Earth
Arts
Make It Digital
Taster
Local
Tomorrow's World
TV
Radio
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.