Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > Policy > Evidence > The impact of our work > National Cycle Network impact

Policy
National Cycle Network impact
family on a cycle path
The National Cycle Network has played a key role in demonstrating the impact of investing in walking and cycling infrastructure. 

Since it was established 20 years ago, the National Cycle Network has saved the UK economy more than £7billion by improving people’s health and reducing congestion, pollution and greenhouse gas emissions - equivalent to almost £1m a day.

Our research shows that when you make it easier for people to walk and cycle, whether for leisure or for commuting, it has a positive impact on society.

Our research has found:

Almost 30 million car trips were replaced by people choosing to travel on the Network, meaning less congestion, noise pollution and C02 emissions.
People on foot and bike spend almost a third more in local shops than those who travel by car.
The Network saves businesses almost £33 million each year by reducing staff sick days.
The Network provides a return on investment that is three times better than some roads schemes.
The overwhelming benefit of the Network has been to people’s health, but it has also helped to reduce carbon emissions, positively impacted local economies, improved business productivity and supported job creation.

Find out more about:
How Sustrans works with the health sector
The service Sustrans can offer local authorities to help deliver local health and economic benefits
If you're an MP, become a campaign champion and help us lobby for change. Find out who's already signed up. 

Categories: CyclingEconomyEnvironmentHealthWalking
Location: UK-wide
Related news articles
Step forward for walking and cycling as Government strategy gets the go ahead
25 June 2015
Related content
Blog
Active travel in the city of the future
Article
Working with the health sector
Article
Working with local authorities
Related documents
Usage and Benefits of the National Cycle Network in Scotland
(5.21 MB)
Follow us
     
 

Sign up to our business newsletter

Sign up to receive our policy and active travel news

Like us
 

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)