Skip to main content
 https://www.newcastle.gov.uk
MyCouncil  MyNeighbourhood
Services
The Council
invisible 
 Search
You are hereHomeParking, Roads and TransportCyclingStreets for People
Print Bookmark
Streets for People
Streets for People - connecting community opinion and ideas about sustainable travel to neighbourhood improvements.
Streets for People update October 2017 - Public consultation open from Monday 16 October until end of November. Go here to have your say


What changes would you make to your local streets to encourage you to cycle more, walk more or let the kids play in the street?

That's what we've been asking residents in three areas across the city as part of our Streets for People programme. The areas are:

Heaton and Ouseburn
Jesmond
Arthurs Hill and Fenham
Using funding that can only be spent on changes to promote walking, cycling and sustainable travel, we have up to £3m to spend on projects in these communities.

Over a number of months a team of urban designers have been working with local residents in these areas to see what improvements they would like to see in their streets so they are safer and much better for everyone to enjoy. 

We've had a great response and we've finalised the responses and the public consultation is now open. Go here for more info.

Ideas have included traffic calming measures near schools, walking routes to school and parks, safer crossings, nicer green spaces for local people to enjoy and local cycle routes to link up the wider citywide network.

Keep up to date with all of the developments here.

 

If you would like to get involved in Streets for People, please email alison.lamb@newcastle.gov.uk for more information.

Here's what people told us about their experiences of getting around in the Streets for People areas.
Heaton & Ouseburn
Here's what residents told us about their experiences of getting around in Heaton and Ouseburn.


You can download the documents below:
Streets for people ; Heaton and Ouseburn 1 (pdf 1.3mb)
Streets for people : Heaton and Ouseburn 2 (pdf 977KB)
Streets for people - Heaton and Ouseburn 3 (pdf 894KB)

For more information, go to the Streets for People - Heaton & Ouseburn map here. You can also contact us on S4P-HeatonOuseburn@newcastle.gov.uk

Jesmond
Here's what residents told us about their issues of getting around in Jesmond.


You can download the documents below:
Streets for people - Jesmond 1 (pdf 1.14MB) 
Streets for people - Jesmond 2 (pdf 940 KB)
Streets for people - Jesmond 3 (pdf 1.03 MB)

 For more information, go to the Streets for People - Jesmond map here. You can also contact us on S4P-Jesmond@newcastle.gov.uk

Arthurs Hill & Fenham
Here's what residents told us about their experiences of getting around in Arthurs Hill and Fenham.


You can download the documents below:
Streets for people - Arthurs Hill and Fenham 1 (pdf 1.29 MB)
Streets for people - Arthurs Hill and Fenham 2 (pdf 953.KB)
Streets for people - Arthurs Hill and Fenham 3 (pdf 895 KB)

For more information, go to the Streets for People - Arthurs Hill & Fenham map here.
Background information:
What is Streets for People (Word doc, 25.77KB)
Background information on CCAF bid (PDF, 7.19MB)
Page last updated: 
22 November 2017

Was this page useful? Yes No
Submit
Website information
Contact the council
Browsealoud and Accessibility
Help and feedback
Press Office and News
Privacy Notice
Terms and conditions

© Newcastle City Council

 

Social Media
Follow us @NewcastleCC

Follow us on Facebook