Skip to main content area
Home
Login | Register
About us | Working with us | Contact us -AA+A

Find us on Facebook (link opens in a new tab/window)  Follow us on Twitter (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our YouTube Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)  Visit our Flickr Channel (link opens in a new tab/window)
Search this site: Search 
Search
 
HomeFind a walkWhy walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Volunteer with usHealth & social care professionalsRunning health walks
Setting up health walks
News
GDPR: information and guidance
News
Why walk?
Walk with us
Walking Works
Healthy bodies
Healthy minds
Meet new people
Preventing illness
Walking with health conditions
Walkers' stories
Keep walking
Healthy bodies
Image of a number of walkers walking towards the camera
With walking, you don’t have to do a lot to reap the rewards.
The minimum recommendation from doctors to keep your body healthy and prevent illness such as heart disease, cancer and diabetes is 150 minutes of activity a week. So you could look at that as just 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week – and you can break that down into chunks of ten or fifteen minutes at a time if you like. 

Public Health England have produced an infographic based on the UK Chief Medical Officers recommend levels of physical activity guidelines which you can find here.



You don’t have to walk for a long time or at a brisk pace from day one. You can build up as you go. And it won’t be long before you start to see the benefits.

"Walking for Health has helped me build up my fitness and lose weight – now I walk for enjoyment, not just around the supermarket"
Catherine, walker 

Walking can help to keep your mind and your social life healthy too, so why not make a start and find a walk near you today. We're a friendly bunch and we'd love you to join us. 



Find a local health walk scheme today...
Search within  
of  
Enter a postcode or placename
Latest tweets from @healthywalks
Were you out walking this weekend? ????? If you didn’t get the chance, why not join a short group walk this week?… https://t.co/sgDxTQ9ZbK — 4 hours 54 min ago
People start walking for different reasons, and experience all kinds of physical, mental and social benefits as a r… https://t.co/4UQ5DD4Spk — 4 days 3 hours ago
RT @RamblersGB: Margot and her son Thomas, joined the Stepping Out Carers’ Walks in Kent. Read about how attending these sociable… https://t.co/IAT7t9YSmO — 5 days 2 hours ago
follow Walking for Health on Twitter »
About us
Contact us
News
WalkFinder
Running health walks
Training
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Cookies
