Home
Projects
Safe cycle routes to schools
North-South off-road cycle link
Hayling Billy upgrade
Bikeability and cycle training
Achievements to date
The Cycle Hayling Map
Upgrade to the Cinder Track
Hayling Billy sign boards
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
Community support
The Cycle Hayling vision
How can I help?
Support us
Offer help with a project
Give us feedback
Get cycling
I’d like to cycle more, but…
Bike maintenance
I need help with…
Teach a child to cycle
Hayling Island by bike
News
Other articles
Community support
Cycling for fun
Did you know?
Hayling Billy
Hayling Island
Web site
All articles by category
All articles by date
All events
Map/Downloads
The Cycle Hayling Map
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
About us
Our Vision
Supporters
Who we are
How we work
Our history
Contact us
Search
Post navigation ?  Previous  Next ?   Code of conduct for shared-use paths
Posted on  January 11, 2013 by   Andy Henderson  
Sustrans has published a code of conduct for shared-use paths like the Hayling Billy trail.  It’s good advice:
 

give way to pedestrians and wheelchair users and take care around horse-riders leaving them plenty of room, especially when approaching from behind
be courteous and patient with pedestrians and other path users who are moving more slowly than you – shared paths are for sharing, not speeding
slow down as needed when space is limited or if you cannot see clearly ahead
be particularly careful at junctions, bends, entrances onto the path, or any other ‘blind spots’ where people (including children) could appear in front of you without warning
keep to your side of any dividing line
carry a bell and use it or an audible greeting – avoid surprising people, or horses
however, don’t assume people can see or hear you – remember that many people are hard of hearing or visually impaired
in dull and dark weather make sure you have lights so you can be seen
This entry was posted in Help with cycling, News by Andy Henderson. Bookmark the permalink.
One thought on “Code of conduct for shared-use paths ”
Andy Henderson  on January 11, 2013 at 17:54 said: 
When approaching dog walkers I always try to avoid going between the dog owner and the dog. Dogs tend to go to their owners if they are anxious.

I also wach out for extending leads – they can be tricky to spot and they make excellent trip wires!

Contact Cycle Hayling    |    Privacy policy    |    Cookies    |    A Haylings BEST initiative
Tweet about us
Proudly powered by WordPress