
 manchester foe logo
Home
2017 General Election: Candidate Summary
2017 General Election: Candidates
About Feeding The 5000
About Fix The Food Chain
About Manchester FoE
About Meat Free Mondays
Actions
Air Quality Information and Resources
Archive of website content
Ask your Mayoral candidates to pledge support for a sustainable Greater Manchester
Aviation Campaign
Bike Fabulous 1
Bike Fabulous 2
Bike Fabulous Blog Intro
Bike Friday General Information
Bike Friday Overview
Bike Month MCR 2013
Biodiversity goals
Book Your Nearly40 Ticket
Calendar
Consultations
Contact Us
Current volunteering opportunities
Cycling Manifesto pdf
Digest
Discounts for Manchester Friends of the Earth members
Drive Less – Breathe Better: Air Quality Action
Election Survey 2014 – Candidate Responses
Election Survey 2014 – Summary by Party
Election Survey 2015 – Local Candidate Summary
Election Survey 2015 – Local Candidates
Election Survey 2015 – Local Parties
Election Survey 2015 – National Candidate Summary
Election Survey 2015 – National Candidates
Election Survey 2015 – National Parties
Election Survey 2016 – Candidates
Election Survey 2016 – Local Candidate Summary
Election Survey 2016 – Local Parties
Election Survey 2018
Email Action Groups
email action test page
Email your Mayoral candidates
EU Election Survey Response: George Walkden (Pirate Party)
EU Election Survey Response: Gina Dowding (Green Party)
EU Election Survey Response: Jake Welsh (Green Party)
EU Election Survey Response: Jane Brophy (Liberal Democrats)
EU Election Survey Response: Jill Perry (Green Party)
EU Election Survey Response: John Knight (Green Party)
EU Election Survey Response: Julie Ward (Labour)
EU Election Survey Response: Laura Bannister (Green Party)
EU Election Survey Response: Maria Aretoulaki (Pirate Party)
EU Election Survey Response: Peter Cranie (Green Party)
EU Election Survey Response: Stephen Morris (English Democrats)
EU Election Survey Response: Ulrike Zeshan (Green Party)
Event Announcements
Events in 2016
FareShare Greater Manchester
Flexitarian
Fracking – Frequently Asked Questions
General Election 2017 – Summary of responses by party
Get Involved
Get Serious
Getting Moving: Cycling Manifesto Document
Getting Moving: Cycling Manifesto for Greater Manchester
GM Mayoral Election – Jane Brophy
GM Mayoral Election – Marcus Farmer
GM Mayoral Election – Sean Anstee
GM Mayoral Election – Andy Burnham
GM Mayoral Election – Stephen Morris
GM Mayoral Election – Will Patterson
Graeme graph test
Greater Manchester areas
Bolton
Bury
Oldham
Rochdale
Salford
Stockport
Tameside
Trafford
Wigan
Greater Manchester network
Have your say on Manchester’s climate plan
Healthy Air Animation
Initiatives on Food Waste
Local Election Survey 2018 – Areas
Local Election Survey 2018 – Candidates
Local Election Survey 2018 – Graphs
Local Election Survey 2018 – Parties
Love It Lock It Discounts
Love Your Bike
‘Get Britain Cycling’ debate – Email your MP
Ask GM Pension Fund to divest from fossil fuels
Bike Fabulous
Bike Friday
Bike Month 2015
Bike Month MCR 2013
Contact Love Your Bike
Cycling Events Calendar
Cycling Resources on the Web
Email Action: Once-in-a-Generation Opportunity – Dutch Style Cycle Lanes for Greater Manchester
Fast Lane Fat Lane Ad Campaign – 2006
Getting Moving
Getting Moving 2.0 – Can you help us imagine a cycling city?
Getting Moving Manifesto: Become a Signatory
Greater Manchester Cycling Links
Guidelines for Bike Friday Participants
Incentivising Cycling
Love It Lock It
Love Your Bike Cycling Vests
Love Your Bike Love Every Minute
Love Your Bike Maps
Love Your Bike Resources
Love Your Bike: Love Every Minute
Love Your Bike: Love Your Body
Love Your Bike: Love Your City
Please support the Oxford Road corridor cycle scheme (again!)
Pocket Guide to Cycling Leaflet
Report a Pothole
Start Cycling
love your bike events introduction
love your bike gear
LYB Front Page
Fat Lane Fast Lane
Why Cycle?
LYB Resources
Bike Shops
Cycle Maps
Love Your Bike Gear
Manchester Friends of the Earth
Newsletter Archive
Newsletter Articles
Our Campaigns
Payment Problem
Payment Success!
Plastic Free GM petition
Posts Archive
Press and Media
Press Release
Press Releases
Privacy Notice
Roles in Manchester Friends of the Earth
search
Sign up to help at the Manchester Feeding the 5,000 event (15th June)
Sign up to help at the Manchester Feeding the 5,000 event (15th June)
Support Us
Taste Before Beauty
test page
test page Graeme
UYL Bread Pudding
UYL Bread Recipe Index
UYL Classic White Bread Loaf
UYL Emergency Breakfast Rolls
UYL Granary Bread Loaf
UYL Sourdough Bread Loaf
UYL Sourdough Chocolate Bread
UYL Sourdough Fougasse
UYL Sourdough Pancakes
UYL Sourdough Starter
UYL Tasty Brown Bread
Vote for the Environment on Thursday 22nd May: Survey of Election Candidates
Waste
Why is food wasted?
Why Pulses in 2016?



Events
see all
Events are labelled using the following key:		MFoE Organising		MFoE Attending
campaign

Latest

Call for sustainable transport and healthy air for the city centre!
Transport for Greater Manchester are seeking views on the development of the city centre. They are working with Manchester City Council and Salford City Council. You have until Wednesday 17th October to give your views on how you find getting … Continue reading ?

  8th Oct 2018

Special Report: How air pollution is cutting life expectancy in Manchester (Granada ITV)
Manchester has at times the dirtiest, most polluted air in Western Europe and people living in the city could have their lives shortened because of it.

  3rd Oct 2018

Toxic air slips under the radar of parents, despite the huge risk it poses to children’s lungs
Survey data released today by Friends of the Earth found that only 10% of parents with a child of school age (4-16) were worried about their child breathing dirty air while on schoolgrounds, or on their way to or from … Continue reading ?

  19th Sep 2018

Imagine Different:  Re-designing Manchester – one parking space at a time!
On Friday 21st September, Manchester Friends of the Earth is inviting people to join them to help redesign a car parking space in Manchester city centre into a picnic park complete with “grass”, plants, deckchairs, tea, cupcakes and sparkling conversation … Continue reading ?

  18th Sep 2018

Remove the A6-M60 Bypass from SEMMMS plans: lift the threat to our valleys and fields (Goyt Valley SOS!)
Please sign the petition, calling for the A6-M60 Bypass to be removed from Stockport Council’s SEMMMS Refresh transport strategy. The final version of SEMMMS Refresh is likely to appear soon for approval by councillors. It is yet another attempt to … Continue reading ?

  6th Sep 2018

Can you help the Station South Restoration and Cycle Café crowdfunder ?
We’re restoring an old railway station to its former glory and need your help to transform it into a destination cycle café, bar, co-working space and permaculture inspired garden! 

  29th Aug 2018

Interviews with women for PhD project on air pollution – can you help?
My name is Maria – I am a PhD student at Manchester Metropolitan University. My PhD focuses on promoting the voices of citizens when it comes to air pollution and designing future clean urban environments. Specifically, I am focusing on … Continue reading ?

  15th Aug 2018
Healthy Air Thumbnail
News release: Get animated about air pollution!
Today, Tuesday 14th August, Manchester Friends of the Earth are launching a powerful animation to highlight the damage caused by air pollution in Greater Manchester. The animation, created by Hannah Langfield a Manchester-based motion designer, vividly shows the dangers of … Continue reading ?

  14th Aug 2018

DEFRA Clean Air Strategy consultation – Manchester Friends of the Earth’s response
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) recently consulted on the Government’s draft Clean Air Strategy. Manchester Friends of the Earth detailed response is available (pdf).  See below for the introduction to our response and why we need … Continue reading ?

  13th Aug 2018

Yorkshire and the North East’s air pollution epidemic: nearly 300 locations breaching limits
Data revealed by Friends of the Earth demonstrates the scale of air pollution across Yorkshire and the North East.

  24th Jul 2018

FIND US ON
 Facebook         

EVENTS
?	Events Oct 2018	?
M	T	W	T	F	S	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
	see all events			our
events		other
events
CAMPAIGNS
INSTAGRAM
@foemanchesterManchester Friends of the Earth is a local environmental group. We have wide range of campaigns and activities - find out how you can get involved!Manchester FoE
Load More...Follow on Instagram
TWITTER

Share page on Share on FacebookTweet about this on TwitterShare on Google+Share on LinkedIn
campaigns
group
get involved
support us
contact us
events
privacy
news
newsletter
press&media
Manchester Friends of the Earth is a campaign organisation licenced by Friends of the Earth EWNI. Website powered by WordPress 

