Donate
Menu
Sustrans
Search

Join the movement
You are hereHome > Services > Our expertise

In this section
Our expertise
Making it easier for people to walk and cycle

Whether you are a local authority portfolio holder focused on regeneration and keeping people moving to support economic growth, or a health trust professional prioritising increasing people’s physical activity levels, you face the challenge of delivering more with less.

Using our skills in behaviour change, community engagement and changing the built environment, we can work with you to:

•    Connect people and places
•    Create liveable neighbourhoods
•    Transform the school run and commute

 

We provide you with solutions
People cycling alongside traffic
With our strong and wide networks and an ear to the ground, you’ll get access to knowledge and people like never before. A trusted delivery partner and a strong advocate for active travel, we have a lot of expertise you can draw on.

Our tailored solutions are practical and pragmatic, delivering your vision from strategic policy level, right down to schemes on the ground.

When you work with us, you'll be looked after by our team of experts

Walking and cycling is what we do
Because we work exclusively on active travel projects, you'll enjoy the benefits of working with well-connected people who truly understand this complex landscape and have the skills to navigate it successfully.

We'll listen to you and actively contribute so that you feel supported and confident in your project.

We’re grounded in communities

By involving local people in the design, delivery and maintenance of solutions we’ll work with you to build consensus and support the adoption of solutions by the community, and your project will have the best possible chance to be a success.

You can feel safe in the knowledge that our work has the interests of the end user at heart.

Supporting you to make the case for change

Navigating the evidence base and making the business case for walking and cycling is the starting point for achieving change. We've been helping clients develop active travel strategy and policy for decades, and have successfully delivered innovative infrastructure and behaviour change solutions that resonate with clients, local communities and strategic partners.

We’re committed to sharing our expertise with you and transforming standards across the sector.

We walk and bike the talk

Our position as a charity means we can dare to dream big and be a critical friend at the same time. Our solutions are practical with proven impact and you can be confident that our work will deliver positive change.

As custodians of the National Cycle Network and 40 years of experience behind us, your investment in walking and cycling will be proven to be an efficient and effective use of funding.

Keep your finger on the pulse
Sign up to our business newsletter, The Network, for the latest evidence, insight and news for those working in health and sustainable transport.

Sign up to The Network
We are proud to have worked with these partners


Get in touch
With over 30 years of pioneering experience across the UK, our multidisciplinary teams develop and implement innovative solutions.

Find out how we can help you realise your vision.

Contact us
Like us

Watch our videos
Air Quality: Sustrans and Eunomia model
Escape - Lee Craigie
View our photos



 

We are the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. Please donate now to help safeguard the future of our projects.

Our fundraising
Sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way that is legal, open, honest and respectful.

Sign up to our Newsletter
Sign up now to hear about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impacts and other activities.

About us Contact us Jobs Media RSS Accessibility Privacy Terms and conditions Cookies
 

Sustrans is a registered charity no. 326550 (England and Wales) SCO39263 (Scotland)