walesonlineLoad mobile navigation

Weather Image7°C
NEWS
IN YOUR AREA
WHAT'S ON
RUGBY
FOOTBALL
SWANSEA
CARDIFF
SPORT
BUSINESS
TV NEWS
FUN STUFF
HOMES
COMMERCIAL FEATURES
NEWS
Where you'll be able to hop on a bikeshare cycle in Swansea and how much it will cost
The bikes will start appearing around the city this summer

SHARE
 
234
SHARES
ByRichard YouleLocal Democracy Reporter
14:00, 14 MAY 2018UPDATED14:06, 14 MAY 2018
Enter your postcode to see news and information near you
Community updates, Crime Statistics, Local News & Events and much more...

Enter your postcode
THE VIDEO WILL START IN 6
CANCEL
PLAY NOW
WATCH NEXT
113 new homes are to be built at one of Swansea's most sought after housing estates
BIKES WILL SOON BE FOR HIRE AROUND THE CITY
Get Swansea updates directly to your inbox

Enter your email
Subscribe
See our privacy noticeMore newsletters
Fifty bikes will be available for hire by residents, students and tourists when a shared bike scheme goes live in Swansea in July.

The bicycles will be kept at hubs at Swansea University’s Singleton and Fabian Way campuses, Fabian Way park and ride, and outside the Civic Centre and National Waterfront Museum .

A sixth hub with a further 10 bikes will be installed in Mumbles shortly afterwards, and there are hopes the scheme could be extended across the city.

Swansea University is the driving force behind the Santander-sponsored bike share scheme after winning a competition, which initially involved 22 other universities.

The entry field was whittled down to a shortlist of five, with Swansea and Brunel universities scooping £100,000 of equipment after raising the most money via crowdfunding campaigns.

READ MORE
These are Swansea’s rules on sex shops and strip clubs
The Swansea scheme will be up and running on July 5.

Andrew Rhodes, the university’s registrar and chief operating officer, said: “We have been overwhelmed with the support we have had from individuals, the community, businesses and councils for this ground-breaking scheme.

“Since our success in the competition, we have been working hard with our partners to deliver the scheme to provide bike stations and cycles.

“As the scheme is rolled out we will also be considering ways that the scheme could possibly be expanded with support from the community.”

One of the Santander bikes at a launch event
The Welsh Government , Swansea Council and Mumbles Community Council are among those who have backed the scheme. Swansea Council’s cabinet member for housing, energy and building services, Councillor Andrea Lewis, said: “This is a fantastic initiative which the council fully supports.

“This scheme fits perfectly with the council’s longer-term aims of developing new modes of transport that have an environmental benefit and help to reduce congestion.”

The continental-style bikes are being provided by a company called nextbike, whose managing director Julian Scriven praised the efforts of all involved in Swansea.

READ MORE
The fall of Swansea City: how the model football club imploded in less than three years
“It was great to see how the university and local community really got behind the campaign and we hope they will continue to show their support once the scheme is up and running,” he said.

The bikes will be serviced regularly and spread around the hubs equally when they are not in use.

How much will the bikes cost?
Provider nextbike offers different tariff and membership options.

Its “casual” tariff is £1 for 30 minutes and a maximum of £10 per day.

Cycles like this will be in use in Swansea
Cycles like this will be in use in Swansea
Monthly and annual membership – costing £5 and £60 respectively - brings the price down to zero for the first 30 minutes and 50p for an additional 30 minutes, and a £5 per day maximum.

READ MORE
Emotional Swansea City fans demand their club back as heartbreaking relegation is confirmed
But nextbike’s website said that fares might vary in different cities. You can unlock the bikes at the hubs electronically using an app or customer card, among other methods, although nextbike say cash will not be an option .

Matt Hutnell, director of Santander Universities UK, added: “We are really looking forward to the launch of Santander Cycles in Swansea which will ultimately benefit the local community who demonstrated such strong support for the scheme throughout the competition.”

Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Swansea Newsletter

WalesOnline
Follow @WalesOnline
Enter email
PROMOTED STORIES
Sponsored Links
Millions of NatWest Customers Are Receiving Large Refunds - Check For Your Name
MONEY ADVICE & HELP
Incredibly Brilliant Way To Check If You Had PPI
MONEY ADVICE CLUB
Prince Harry's incredible response when being told to end conversation with grieving woman by staff
Mirror
Prince Harry spent ten minutes chatting to Gwen Cherne, and the pair even shared an emotional hug during the Royal Tour
Sponsored Links
Sponsored Links
Born Before 1960? Here's A Genius Way To Avoid Funeral Expenses
EXPERTS IN MONEY
Lucky you! Here's £10 to spend today at Cornerstone
CORNERSTONE
Murdered student Hannah Cornelius 'stopped herself from crying as she was raped by gang of four men'
Mirror
Hannah Cornelius, 21, was gang-raped by three men after her and Cheslin Marsh, 22, were carjacked in South Africa in May 2017
Sponsored Links
MORE ON
National Waterfront MuseumSwansea CouncilSwansea UniversityWelsh GovernmentLocal GovernmentEducationSwanseaMumbles
NEWS
ALL
TOP STORIES

IN THE NEWS
These are the people who died in the Leicester City helicopter crash

COURTS
Paedophile hunters confront chef after he sent sexual messages to '14-year-old girl'

FACEBOOK
Drummer of heavy rock legends Saxon has half his nose bitten off in a pub by a dog

SOUTH WALES POLICE
The shotgun, knives, CS spray, cash and £250,000 worth of drugs taken off Wales' streets
GARETH BALE
'Irrelevant', 'Will never replace Ronaldo', 'Get rid of him and Lopetegui' — Gareth Bale slammed by Real Madrid fans after Barcelona rout
PORT TALBOT
Huge fire engulfs car park situated perilously close to petrol station
CEREDIGION
'Hoarder' pensioners filled fields with caravans, cars, fridges, toys, baths (and geese)
CARDIFF CROWN COURT
Mum says she was groomed, drugged and raped by 'Fred and Rose West of Barry' at just 14 years old
SWANSEA
Biker riding in a convoy seriously injured in Swansea crash
WALES NEWS
The heartbreaking story of a young woman who fought for a double lung transplant her body is now rejecting
WALES NEWS
'A 50-year-old man repeatedly sexually abused me in a tent when I was six'
WHITCHURCH
Campaign launched to save 100-year-old tennis club
NEWS
WHAT'S ON
SPORT
BUSINESS
FOLLOW US
InYourArea
Discount Codes
Contact Us
About Us
Download our e-editions
Letters To The Editor
Echo Home Delivery
Magazines
Advertise with Us
Our Audience
Goal Time
Bingo
Buy a Photo
How to Complain
Corrections and Clarifications
Google Survey
Reader Panel
Public Notices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
RSS Feeds
© 2018 Media Wales Ltd
