MENU Greener Scotland - Let's go Greener TogetherGreener Scotland - Scottish Government

Why live greener?
Welcome to Greener Scotland
Scotland2030
Climate Conversations
If everyone in Scotland...
Climate Challenge Fund Videos
Greener Together Awards
Too Good to Waste
Greener Blog
My Greener Plan
TAKE ACTION NOW
Emissions Impossible
Emissions Impossible
Help Scotland fight climate change

GREENER TOPICS
Home Energy
Using your home energy well
Home Energy Scotland
Home Energy Housebuilder
How to save energy at home
Buying energy efficient appliances
Generating your own power
Play our Cosy Caterpillar Game
Saving energy in your community
Advice and grants
Case Studies
Insulation
Heating systems
Home energy links and resources
Greener Travel
Smarter travel choices
Planning your journey
Active travel
Public transport
Alternatives to flying
Greener driving
Reducing work travel
Travel links and resources
Eating Greener
Choosing to eat greener
Local in season food
In season food calendar
Recipe Finder
Types of food
Eating greener links and resources
Food Waste
Why reduce food waste?
Shop smarter
How to stop wasting food
Food waste recycling search
Composting food waste
Food waste facts
From farm to fork
Businesses and food waste
Food waste links and resources
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle
Why reduce, reuse and recycle?
Search for your local recycling services
Play our Rapid Recycler game
Reducing your waste
Reusing materials
Recycling
Recycling links and resources
MORE
Explore
Sign up for emails
Calculations
 
greener travel
active travel
Login to add this page to My Greener Plan
The day-to-day travel decisions you make can have a real impact on making Scotland a cleaner, greener place to live – and they could also help you to be fitter, healthier, happier and wealthier.



If it’s not far, leave the car, and choose active travel options like cycling or walking instead. Walking is one of the best ways to clear your head and reduce stress.  Whether you are planning your thoughts for the day ahead or walking away the stresses of the day – active travel has many benefits.

journeys
Clear your mind and reduce stress.
Get healthier, feel happier.
Download Journeys for free today. 

Learn more
 
Walking
Walking is a great, green way to get from A to B – each step is a move towards a cleaner, healthier Scotland. Walking costs nothing, it’s good for your health and you don’t need any special gear to get started. A short journey by foot can be surprisingly quick – and you'll feel the physical benefits whilst doing your bit to help the environment. So, if it’s not far, leave the car. Walking is also a great way to help you towards at least 30 minutes of moderate activity five times a week.

Even if you’re in a hurry, walking can often be quicker than navigating busy roads in a car and then finding a parking place. You won’t need change for the meter either.

Benefits of walking
Save money – cut down on fuel and fares
Keep fit – being active every day can have the greatest health benefits
Unwind – walking is one of the best ways to relieve stress
Reduce emissions – walking is a great, green way to get from A to B
Make walking part of your routine
Try switching to walking for some of those shorter journeys and everyday errands you’d usually do by car. Get the kids walking to school with you if you live close by. If you can walk to work you’ll find space and time in your day to think, listen to music and relax. Even popping to the local shops is easier when you don’t have to find a place to park first. You could well be surprised by how quickly you can get where you need to go.

Plan your walk
With a little forward planning, most short journeys are easily walkable. The best route might be quite different to the one you normally drive.

Plan now
take life on
Find out more about getting active at the Take Life On website.

Find out more
 

Cycling
Pedal your way to a better quality of life – and a better level of fitness. If it’s not far, leave the car. Cycling shorter journeys instead can keep you healthy, get you where you need to go faster and help to keep Scotland cleaner and greener. Read about the goals of the Cycling Action Plan for Scotland.

Find out how Velocity in Inverness is helping people get on their bikes:


View more of our Climate Challenge Fund videos.

More cycle lanes, off-road paths and advanced stop boxes at junctions mean cycling in town is easier than ever. The National Cycle Network has thousands of miles of dedicated cycling routes – and 75% of us live within two miles of a route. Getting kitted out is a one-off expense, and you could save on travel costs for years.

Benefits of cycling
Work out and feel better – you can turn your regular commute into a workout by trying to improve your speed and stamina, and make time in your life for other things knowing you’ve had plenty of exercise
Save money – even a new bike needn’t cost much and it will help you to spend less on fuel and fares. Check whether your work offers a tax-free Cycle to Work scheme to help with the costs of buying a bike
De-stress – exercise is a great way to wind down, and cycling along dedicated cycle paths and routes can be a great stress reliever
Reduce emissions – cycling is a great, green way to get from A to B
The whole family could feel better by getting on their bikes. For the kids, find out about Bikeability Scotland training. Many schools teach cycling proficiency through this scheme. Some even team up with local bike shops offering discounts, so you can get the children kitted out for less. 

Mile for mile, it’s shorter car journeys like the school run that are most damaging to the environment. With a little research, the kids could be pedalling their way to classes safely, quickly and cheaply. 

Getting started with cycling
What you need
Plan your route
cycling scotland
Find everything you need to know about cycling in Scotland.

Find out more
Previous
Next
Related Content	Mini Missions
 Explore	
View related tags 

 
 
Greener Scotland is your one-stop website for greener living, provided by the Scottish Government. © 2018 Greener Scotland - The Scottish Government

Sitemap Accessibility Privacy Policy Contact
Greener Scotland would like to send you emails packed with news, hints and tips to help you live greener and to help create a cleaner, Greener Scotland. You can opt out at any time using the unsubscribe link a the bottom of the emails.

Sign up for our newsletter

