Accessibility | Skip to Content
Queen's University BelfastCycle Plus
Home Guidelines Approved Suppliers Safety Equipment Cycle Registration Form Contact Us Search
search
 



Cyclescheme is now at Queen's
From 5 September 2016 staff will be able to use Cyclescheme to get their bike & equipment and benefit from increased savings!

??


Cycle To Work Breakfast
The first bike to work breakfast of 2018 takes place on Friday 23 March. For a full list throughout 2018 click here . Put them in your planner now!!  

??


Cycle Pumps Now Available!!
Arrive at work with a soft or flat type? Cycle pumps are now available for temporary use from Security Control Room (Level 1, Admin Building)!!


 

Queen’s University Belfast Cycle+ Scheme (Cyclescheme)
Welcome to Cycle+, the University cycle to work scheme, which offers staff the opportunity to obtain a bicycle and safety equipment for less than normal cost. Cycle+ is operated through Cyclescheme and by joining the scheme staff can hire a tax-free bike for work, which, for most people, means a saving of between 32% and 42% on the cost of the equipment.

By applying to the scheme, staff can have the use of a new bicycle and safety equipment, up to a value of £1,000.  

These guidelines describe how the scheme works and they should be read carefully before deciding to join.

Remember, to enter the Cyclescheme website you must enter the unique Queen's University code of 60cd5a

To enter Cyclescheme, click here 

Facilities
The University provides a range of cycling facilities for staff.


  

Cycling Guide
This easy to read guide provides information on cycle routes in Belfast.



Security
Staff can follow a few simple steps to make cycling safer.




 

What is Cycle+? 
How it works?
Timescales
What cycle safety equipment can I choose?
Eligibility to join Cycle+
Potential savings
Cycle+ conditions
What happens at the end of the Agreement?
The effects of Cycle+ on work related pay benefits and pension entitlements
Download documents
CONTACT

John McCann

Travel Plan Coordinator
Estates Directorate

transport@qub.ac.uk

USEFUL LINKS


© Queen's University Belfast 2018, University Road Belfast, BT7 1NN, Northern Ireland, UK. Email us | Contacts | Legal | Accessibility