Why take the bus? 
Why take the bus?
In 2015, York's buses were rated the best in England.

Better use of personal time
Using the bus instead of driving frees up time to do something that you enjoy. Use your journey to catch up on emails, text your mates, read the paper or do the latest Sudoku challenge. Or simply relax, let someone else do the driving, and plan for the day ahead.

Faster end to end journeys
Prioritised traffic lights and dedicated bus lanes on main routes allow buses to get through the city quickly. Buses with few stopping points are often just as quick as the car. Buses also help to reduce congestion on key routes by taking more cars off the road. 

Low cost
Using the bus is an economical way of travelling if you compare ticket costs with the true cost of motoring. This is especially true if you buy multi-purchase or season tickets.

Roads are expensive pieces of infrastructure. One bus can do the job of 40 cars and significantly reduce the demand for road improvements.

Convenience
With a pedestrianised city centre, the bus can often get you much closer to where you want to be than a car. This is especially useful in bad weather or when carrying heavy bags. York has five main bus interchange points in the city centre.

With the latest bus information technology at your fingertips, you can spend more time doing what you want - whether that's more time at work, in the pub, in the bath, or in bed - rather than waiting for a bus. Find out more about the yournextbus service.

Better mental and physical health
Obesity is an increasing concern for society. Regular exercise can help, such as walking to and from the bus stop. Getting off a stop or two earlier can also be an easy way of building up your physical activity.

Using public transport builds independence and personal confidence especially amongst young people; it can also foster a real sense of community for regular or older travellers, seeing familiar faces on local routes.

What's more, at the discretion of the bus operator, you can usually take your dog with you on the bus provided the dog is well behaved and is kept off the seats. For more information check with the operator of your usual bus service.

Increased road safety
In 2009 there were 25 car users killed or seriously injured (KSIs) on York roads and 309 total accidents. 86% of all UK road traffic accidents occur on built up roads. Taking cars off the road and replacing with public transport can help to reduce the total number of traffic accidents.  

Economic growth
Using the bus helps to cut congestion which is a serious constraint on growth and costly to the economy. Reducing congestion in the city also improves the ambience of our streets and our general quality of life.

Reduced greenhouse gases
An increase in the use of public transport results in less pollution and better air quality. Just one person opting to take the bus rather than drive to work every day can reduce their carbon footprint by up to 3.8 tonnes per year!
