Home
Projects
Safe cycle routes to schools
North-South off-road cycle link
Hayling Billy upgrade
Bikeability and cycle training
Achievements to date
The Cycle Hayling Map
Upgrade to the Cinder Track
Hayling Billy sign boards
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
Community support
The Cycle Hayling vision
How can I help?
Support us
Offer help with a project
Give us feedback
Get cycling
I’d like to cycle more, but…
Bike maintenance
I need help with…
Teach a child to cycle
Hayling Island by bike
News
Other articles
Community support
Cycling for fun
Did you know?
Hayling Billy
Hayling Island
Web site
All articles by category
All articles by date
All events
Map/Downloads
The Cycle Hayling Map
Billy Trail Treasure Hunt
About us
Our Vision
Supporters
Who we are
How we work
Our history
Contact us
Search
Post navigation ?  Previous  Next ?   I’d like to cycle for pleasure
Posted on  January 5, 2013 by   Andy Henderson  
Hayling Island is in a great position for the leisure cyclist.  We have the South Downs national park right on our doorstep.

The best way is to join a group.  That way you can:

Learn routes that avoid main roads
Enjoy exploring the countryside with like-minded people
Stretch yourself knowing you have support from the group if you get into trouble
Get god advice about clothing and equipment
Find out other cycling possibilities in the area and further afield
 

Before joining a group ride:

Make sure your bike is roadworthy
Find out the club rules for group rides and make sure you understand them
Find out what types of ride are available – start with a short ride and build from there
Are you comfortable on your bike?
Are you OK with cycling in traffic?  If not, our Bikeability and cycle training project might be able to help
Do you need to upgrade your bike or get some cycle clothing – if you’re uncomfortable after a few miles, that will only get worse over longer distances
Equip yourself with:
Water
A map of the area you’ll be cycling in
A puncture repair kit, pump and – preferably – a spare inner tube
Money
Mobile phone – if you have one
We’d be happy to try to answer any specific questions you might have.

You might find ride distances to be daunting, but try converting them to time on the bike.  For example, 25 miles is not unsual for a starter ride.  It might sound a lot, but it translates to just 2-3 hours of easy cycling.

You have access to a number of groups:

CTC (Cycle Touring Club) Portsmouth.  Organises rides throughout the year including short rides once a month.  Day rides break for ‘elevenses’ providing an opportunity to do half the ride.  There are evening rides (to a pub) and regular club nights.  New riders are always welcome and you don’t need to be a CTC member to start with.
Hayling Island U3A (University of the third age) Cycle group.  Cycles on the first Tuesday of each month starting from HIADS.  The group sometimes cycles to Havant, takes a train to the starting point and cycles back from there.  To meet the terms of U3A’s insurance policy, riders must be members of the U3A.  Rides are planned shortly before each event to take account of weather, and rider preferences.  To find out more, contact Ann Kent on 023 9246 1104 or at ann@cyclehayling.org.uk.
The Portsmouth Cycle Forum is a campaigning organisation similar to Cycle Hayling.  It organises rides throughout the year.  Rides are free and open to all.
This entry was posted in Cycling for fun, Help with cycling by Andy Henderson. Bookmark the permalink.
Comments are closed.

Contact Cycle Hayling    |    Privacy policy    |    Cookies    |    A Haylings BEST initiative
Tweet about us
Proudly powered by WordPress