The Big Wheel – Turning Transport Around
HomeAbout usContact us

Search...
Search
Home » Change your travel » Car users » Car sharing

Car sharing
Car sharing means combining your car journey with other people who are doing all or part of the same trip. It’s a great way to cut costs and spend time with other people. Journeys are more fun when shared, so why not give it a go?

Car sharing brings many benefits by saving you money, reducing wear and tear to your vehicle, reducing congestion and helping the environment.  Find out how much your car is costing each year using the Liftshare Cost Calculator.

If half of all the UK’s motorists received a lift one day a week then congestion and pollution would be reduced by 10 per cent and traffic jams by 20 per cent. Do you know of colleagues who live near you, or on your route? Perhaps your home is on the route for one of your colleagues and they could pick you up on the way?

If you don’t know anyone to share your car journeys with then why not sign up to Nottinghamshare?  It’s a free service designed to bring potential lift-sharing partners together across Nottinghamshire – whether you’re seeking a lift or can offer one for a daily commute to work or even a one-off trip.

The Nottinghamshare service is completely free to use and has already helped hundreds of people to car share. To find suitable car sharing partners in your area please visit www.nottinghamshare.com.

car sharing
In this section
Car sharing
Greener driving
Advanced driving
Enterprise City Car Club
Route planning – Car
School Run
Parking
Roadworks
Taxis
Popular Maps
We've got some great ideas for bike rides in and around Nottingham


Join our mailing list

Your email address
Journey planning
Broadmarsh Centre
Victoria Centre
Planning tools
The Royal Centre
Nottingham Forest FC
Capital FM Arena
The Playhouse
Our services
Travel advice
Citycard Cycles
Cycle training
Dr Bike
Cycle Hubs
Guided cycle rides
Park and Ride
TravelRight
Business Services
About the Business Club
How we can help
Workplace Parking Levy
General information
Travel advice for employees
Workplace Challenge
Change your travel
Get walking
Get cycling
Travel by tram
Bus journeys
Travel by train
Motorbikes
Car users
News & Events
News
Events
Maps
Family Cycling Quest – get involved now!
City cycle map
The Riverleen
The Big Track
Sherwood Forest
Hucknall to city
Erewash Valley Trail
National Cycle Route
Bilsthorpe Leisure Trail
Ashfield and Mansfield Trails
The Dukeries Trail
© 2018
The Big WheelPress ReleasesStaff loginTravelRightRideWiseSitemapContact us
The Sustainable Travel Collective is an Investor in the Environment committed to reducing their environmental impact and to the continual improvement of environmental performance. The Sustainable Travel Collective Ltd - Registered Charity number 1153800.
