 Search
Plan your journey
Journey planner
Disruptions
Timetables
Map and Guides
Travelling to hospital
Our Apps
Ways to travel
Bus
Train
Metro
Cycling
Walking
Coach
Driving
Flying
Travelling safely
Tickets and passes
Ticket finder
Ticket types
Ways to buy
bus Low Fare Zones
Direct Debit
Swift Card
Adult
Child
Students
Day, Family and Group
Disabled person's pass
Older person's pass
Offers
Discount Vouchers
Cycling
Jobseekers
What's on
About us
What we do
Infrastructure
Get in touch
Report a problem
Direct Debit
Swift card support
Lost property
Operators
Have your say
Stay up to date
Travel Centres
Contact Us
Refunds
Lost passes
Home  Ways to travel  Driving  Car Sharing
Car Sharing
Share the journey

Share the journey, the cost and the carbon
Cut petrol costs in half, split parking fees, save the environment and enjoy the company! By choosing to share your car journey with another person, you’ll see some extra change in your wallet and you’ll be doing a great deal to tackle CO2 emissions in your local area.

Why Car Share?

Save money: Probably the biggest motivator for trying something new. Sharing your journey can effectively halve your petrol costs. Websites such as liftshare.co.uk enable you to set a fare in advance. 

Reduce stress: Split the weekly commuting between you and your car share companion and have the chance to relax as a passenger.  

Be part of the solution! Congestion is a major source of air pollution and blocks the road for industry to move freely. By choosing to car share you are helping to tackle these problems and make your world a nicer place.

Perks: Park in the best spaces when there's two or more in the car. Parking spaces for those that car share are available at the rail stations below. No booking required, just turn up on the day as a pair or more to benefit. 

Car share.jpg

Solihull Station: Parking at this station is run by Chiltern Railways. They offer a 'Three for Free' offer where if there are three or more people traveling in the car, you can park for free! Just validate your parking ticket at the station office with everyone present to benefit. 

How to get started  

Friends and family: The easiest way to share a ride is with someone you know well. 
Try setting up a group Whats app or Facebook messenger where everyone can discuss weekly travel plans
Neighbours: Many people who live in the suburbs will drive into city centre using one of the main routes (A38, Hagley Road, Bristol Road etc...) 
So, it makes sense that if you notice someone on your road making the exact same journey, to ask them if they would be interested in sharing.  
Mention in passing, knock on the door or pop a note through the door with your travel details, contact number and proposal (i.e split driving and frequency) 
Colleagues: This can be a tricky one if your employer does not have a system in place already. But you could ask colleagues on your intranet, newsletter or even whilst making a cuppa!
Someone new: There are thousands of people making the same journeys every day. There are reputable UK wide and local sites available. The one you choose is dependent on where you live and where you might like to travel. We would recommend joining a few to start with to increase your chance of finding the perfect match.
UK wide
liftshare.co.uk
blablacar.co.uk

West Midlands 
Sandwell 
Wolverhampton

Some things to consider: 

You don't always have to leave from the exact same start point, meet on route and travel the rest of the way in one car 
It doesn't have to be every day, car sharing just once a week can greatly help towards CO2 reductions
Always be upfront about any petrol contributions or split the driving to keep it fair
Electric car
Charging points available across the region.                    

Find out more

Park and Ride
Why get stuck in congestion when you can Park and Ride?

Find out more

Share
FacebookTwitterGoogle+ Email PrintBack to top
 Plan your journey

Stay up to date
Don't miss out on vital information, sign up today and be in the know at all times.







Subscribe
Share
FacebookTwitterGoogle+ Email Print
More information
Jobseekers
Young People
Transport accessibility
Disabled person's pass
Follow us on...
FacebookTwitter
Swift Pay As You Go
If you pay cash fares to travel, PAYG is the smarter and cheaper way to travel by bus and tram in the West Midlands.

Find out more

Information for...
Jobcentres
Companies
Teaching professionals
Accessibility Terms & Conditions Jobs Media Privacy Statement Contact Cookies 

© West Midlands Combined Authority
