
Search bmw.co.uk

BMW
MENU
BMW Cars
CARS
SEARCH
Close
Home
New Cars
Ownership
Finance
Discover
Business
Your BMW Hub
Approved Used BMW
Finance Offers
Find your perfect BMW
Recall Information
 5 Reasons you need an electric car
5 REASONS YOU NEED AN ELECTRIC CAR.
THE FUTURE IS ELECTRIC.
Electric cars – the topic of the moment, and for good reason. A recent think-tank report suggested that by 2035, over a third of new cars sold will be electric*. With more and more people becoming conscious of their carbon footprint and making efforts to live more sustainably, the interest around electric cars is growing. But, why should you buy an electric car? Why do you need one and what are the benefits to you? We've summarised the top 5 reasons.

BMW i3 & BMW i3s
1. REDUCE YOUR CARBON FOOTPRINT.
It goes without saying, that due to the nature of their power source, electric cars offer a 100% eco-friendly drive. Electric cars don’t emit toxic gases into the environment as they run on clean energy. Consider the BMW i3 – powered by an emission-free electric motor and even built in a completely sustainable way – it is quintessentially green, leaving you with no guilt over your carbon footprint. The added bonus? Agility and acceleration is never compromised, so you can drive sustainably and dynamically! 


2. SAVE MONEY AND AVOID THE LONDON CONGESTION CHARGE.
Electric vehicles are extremely cost effective. As well as saving on a cost per mile basis compared to traditional petrol or diesel vehicles, electric vehicles are exempt from vehicle tax. And if you travel into London, they are also exempt from the Congestion Charge.

The sustainable way in which electric cars are made to run also helps with cost saving. For example, the BMW i3’s batteries are guaranteed for eight years or 100,000 miles and servicing intervals are dictated by the car itself, but with no combustion engine there are no air filters, oil or oil filters to change. 

BMW i3 charging
3. YOU DON'T NEED FUEL AND CHARGING IS EASY.
Probably, one of the winning conveniences of owning an electric car is that you can do without the trips to the petrol station to refuel. Instead, you can charge your vehicle at home whilst you sleep, eat, or just relax! It’s super easy with BMW i; every household socket or the purpose-built BMW i Wallboxes are your re-charging stations. Or, when you’re away from your home, there are over 4,000 public charging stations available, and with some re-charging the BMW i3 to 80% in approximately 40 minutes, it isn’t a lengthy process.

4. THEY REALLY CAN GO THE DISTANCE.
"How far does it go before I need to charge?" A common question asked when buying an electric car. In short, consider this – the average UK driver travels around 20-30 miles a day. Fully charged, a BMW i3 can take you up to 125 miles; combine this with a BMW i3 range extender and you can drive up to 206 miles in one go. Think of how far you drive each day, and the recharging stops you can take in between and you can see, there really isn’t any reason to worry. 


5. THE DRIVING EXPERIENCE.
Quality of drive is definitely not compromised with an electric car, in fact in many ways, it is enhanced. The agility and acceleration of the BMW i3 – it takes just 7.3 seconds to sprint from 0 to 62mph – means that you can experience the driving pleasure that BMW’s are renowned for. Engine noise is also redundant, so you can enjoy city driving without the added acoustics from your car. With the BMW i3 also coined as having a ‘better turning circle than a London taxi’, turning those tight turns in the city has never been easier. 

BMW i3s
Reference.
*Carbon Tracker. (2017). Retrieved from http://www.carbontracker.org/in-the-media/no-growth-for-oil-and-coal-from-2020-as-electric-cars-and-solar-blossom/

Test Drive Today.
Book your test drive today, to experience the ultimate driving machine. 
Speak to our retailer to secure your test drive spot today.


I would like to:   Find Centre   Brochure   Test Drive   Build   Service
I would like to:   Find Centre   Brochure   Test Drive   Build   Service
Legal Notice Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Careers About us FAQs Contact us Motability BMW Newsletter BMW.com
© BMW UK 2018
This link takes you to a location that may not display content in a mobile-optimised format.

