Homepage
Accessibility links
Skip to contentAccessibility Help
Sign in
Notifications
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
More
Search the BBC
Search
Search the BBC
News BBC News Navigation
Home
UK
selected
World
Business
Politics
Tech
Science
Health
Family & Education
 More sections
Wales
selected
Wales Politics
Wales Business
North West
North East
Mid
 More sections
Electric car registration in Wales rises by 35%
10 January 2018
Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share
Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
The number of new electric and hybrid car registrations in Wales rose by 35% in 2017 compared to the previous year, a campaign group has said.

Wales is ahead of the UK average of 27% growth, figures from the Go Ultra Low partnership show.

The joint UK government and industry campaign body said it had been a "landmark year".

The RAC Foundation said the figures were good news, but were still a "tiny fraction" of total car use.

More electric car charge points needed
Testing electric car on Welsh hills
Powys saw the highest percentage rise in Wales at 66.7%, followed by Cardiff and Penarth combined at 53.3%.

In absolute terms, the number of electric cars in Wales remains tiny.

The 35% rise in new registrations represents a rise from 565 in 2016 to 760 in 2017.

Overall there are nearly 2,500 plug-in vehicles in Wales and 439 charge points across Wales, Go Ultra Low has said.

A report from June 2017 for transport organisation RAC Foundation said there were 4,476 charging sites across the UK with 12,849 individual connectors.

Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe
Poppy Welch, head of Go Ultra Low, said electric vehicles represented 1.83% of all UK traffic, but believed the outlook was positive.

"The numbers are growing. We're up 27% on last year which is quite a healthy increase," she said.

She added: "Over the next few years, manufacturers are bringing out more models. Infrastructure is improving and the government wants to see the end of conventionally fuelled petrol and diesel vehicles by 2040.

"Things are definitely going in the right direction. A lot of the concerns are about infrastructure meeting the demands of electric vehicles."

Why switching to fully electric cars will take time
Diesel car industry dilemmas explained
Philip Gomm from RAC Foundation said: "We all want to see the cleanest possible vehicles driving on our roads and on the face of it these figures are good news, but we need to keep things in perspective.

"Plug-in vehicles remain a tiny fraction of the car fleet in Wales, which totals around 1.5 million.

"While the number of ultra-green models available in the showroom is on the rise, consumer concerns remain about the four Rs: retail price, refuelling, range and residual value.

"That the Westminster government continues to subsidise the sale of these cars by as much as £4,500 each shows that this remains a fragile market.

"We urge ministers to think very carefully before they consider reducing the incentives on offer."

Related Topics
Electric carsCar industryWales Business
Share this story About sharing
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
More on this story
Why switching to fully electric cars will take time
19 September 2017
Calls for more electric car charge points in Wales
15 February 2017
Video Can electric cars manage Welsh hills to tackle pollution?
8 March 2017
Monmouthshire and Newport get 30 new electric car points
8 October 2017
Wales
'Community grieving' after crash deaths
29 October 2018
 From the section Wales
Full article 'Community grieving' after crash deaths
Welsh Government awaits extra cash news
29 October 2018
 From the section Wales 45 comments
Full article Welsh Government awaits extra cash news
Boy among Pride of Britain winners
29 October 2018
 From the section Wales
Full article Boy among Pride of Britain winners
Top Stories
Chancellor unveiling Budget
Philip Hammond says the "era of austerity is finally coming to an end" as he delivers the last Budget before Brexit.

29 October 2018
At-a-glance: Budget key points
2 minutes ago
Wife and son visit Leicester City crash site
25 minutes ago
Features
Helicopter crash tragic end to fairytale
 
‘The SOS in my Halloween decorations’
 
Brazil swing to right brings hope and fear
VIDEO
Dad creates VR world to help daughter
 
How could a brand new plane crash?
 
A stark choice facing President Trump
How to navigate the crazy world of Halloween costumes
 
Reality Check: How many rough sleepers are there?
 
VIDEO
Are hydrogen trains the future of travel?
Elsewhere on the BBC
Little Drummer Girl
The stylish adaptation of John Le Carres novel

Full article Little Drummer Girl
Daily news briefing direct to your inbox
Sign up for our newsletter

Full article Daily news briefing direct to your inbox
Most Read
1
Budget 2018: 'Era of austerity coming to an end'
2
Leicester City helicopter crash: Owner's wife and son visit stadium
3
Lion Air: How could a brand new plane crash?
4
Budget 2018: Austerity finally coming to an end, says Hammond
5
'Woman blows herself up' in Tunis
6
Summary of Budget 2018: Key points at-a-glance
7
Lion Air crash: Boeing 737 plane crashes in sea off Jakarta
8
Pittsburgh shooting: Gab drops offline after attack
9
The Simpsons producer responds to claims Apu is leaving
10
'Controlling bully' gets 23 years for Haringey wife murder
Why you can trust BBC News
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
Bitesize
Earth
Arts
Make It Digital
Taster
Local
Tomorrow's World
TV
Radio
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.