Skip to main content
 https://www.newcastle.gov.uk
MyCouncil  MyNeighbourhood
Services
The Council
invisible 
 Search
You are hereHomeParking, Roads and TransportGreener travel and travel planningCo-wheels car club
Print Bookmark
Co-wheels car club
 Co-wheels car clubYou don't need to own a car to use a car. Join Newcastle's car club!

Co-wheels is a 'pay by the hour' car club with cars parked in convenient locations across Newcastle close to where people live and work. Members can make use of car club vehicles as and when they need them, without any of the cost and hassle of owning a car.

Car club membership also encourages people to think more about their journey, only taking the car when it's the best option, so helping to cut car use and tackle climate change.

Similarly, using the car club for business travel is cheaper, faster and less hassle to manage than pool cars, taxis, hire cars or subsidising employees' private car use, and saves on parking charges.

There are Co-wheels car bays at the following locations in Newcastle:

Photograph of Car club car Outside Central Station, Westgate Road, City Centre
Queen Victoria Road car park, city centre
Dean Street, city centre
Westgate Road, city centre (west)
City Road, opposite the Quayside multi storey car park
Swing Bridge car park, Quayside
Portland Road, Shieldfield
Eslington Road, Jesmond
Lyndhurst Avenue, West Jesmond
Ilford Road
Heaton Road, Heaton
Chillingham Road, Heaton (north)
Chillingham Road, Heaton (south)
Ivy Road, Gosforth
Elmfield Road, Gosforth
Co-wheels offers pay as you go car hire for individuals and businesses from as little as £3.75/hour.

So why not join today, save yourself loads of money and do your bit to reduce car use?

To join, book or find out more phone 0845 602 8030 or visit www.co-wheels.org.uk.

Co-wheels is a Community Interest Company. This means it is a not-for-profit organisation and all money made is reinvested into the car club and its development.

They are a company owned by its members, i.e. people like you. They don't have shareholders, and members decide how they operate and how they develop car clubs and sustainable transport in local areas. Co-wheels are working in partnership with Newcastle City Council. 

Page last updated: 
25 April 2014

Was this page useful? Yes No
Submit
Website information
Contact the council
Browsealoud and Accessibility
Help and feedback
Press Office and News
Privacy Notice
Terms and conditions

© Newcastle City Council

 

Social Media
Follow us @NewcastleCC

Follow us on Facebook