Skip to content
Better By Bike
Search for:
Search…
Start Cycling
Maps & Rides
Shops & Hire
Bike Repairs
Cycle Planner
News
Events
Start Cycling
Home / Start Cycling


Save
Share3
It’s never too late to start cycling, whatever your age.  Try leaving your car at home and riding your bike for short journeys like your commute to work, popping to the shops, or picking up the kids from school.

You’ll save money on petrol and parking, save time by avoiding traffic delays, and you’ll help create a better place to live by reducing traffic and pollution on your local roads.

Or just ride a bike for fun – it’s energising and invigorating – a great way to get fit and feel healthier. You’ll meet new people and gain a fresh perspective on where you live and work!

In this section you’ll find lots of help, practical information and advice, so please read on.

Bikes for sale
1
 Get a bike
Did you know? You don’t have to own a bike to start cycling. You can borrow a bike for a trial period to give you a taste of what cycling can…

 
2
 Get equipped
Did you know? It needn’t be expensive to get equipped for cycling. No, you don’t need to invest in the latest Lycra sportswear! We give you useful advice on what…

 Girl-Cycling-On-College-Gre
3
 Get confidence
Anyone can take up cycling, whatever their level of ability. Cycling is a sport accessible to all – there are all sorts of specially-adapted bikes you can ride at local…

 
4
 Get cycling
Did you know? There’s a lot of FREE help around for both new and experienced cyclists. We point you in the right direction for individual cycle training, maps and routes…

See Also
 
Maps & Rides
 
Shops & Hire
 I Bike It I Like It!
Win A Set of Bike Lights
 Events

Let’s Ride – Pop-Up Bristol
Sunday 28 October, 2018, 10:00 - 12:00

Road Safety Week 2018, Bike Smart
Monday 19 November, 2018 - Sunday 25 November, 2018

Let’s Ride – Pop-Up Bristol
Sunday 24 March, 2019, 10:00 - 12:00
Follow on Twitter
Better By Bike
2 days ago
This is the last week you can enter our 'I Bike It, I Like It' competition! Take our quick survey to be in with a chance of winning a £250 VOUCHER! Enter here: bit.ly/2OFMumH

test Twitter Media - This is the last week you can enter our 'I Bike It, I Like It' competition! Take our quick survey to be in with a chance of winning a £250 VOUCHER! Enter here: https://t.co/e2aNTOmxtI https://t.co/fLKSTVVsDn
  
Better By Bike
2 days ago
The Bristol Cycle Path Network – discover the 12 routes with new additions in Southmead, Filwood and the Frome Valley ??bit.ly/2EGH9rw

test Twitter Media - The Bristol Cycle Path Network – discover the 12 routes with new additions in Southmead, Filwood and the Frome Valley ??https://t.co/CthJLiyrv4 https://t.co/69ixLzEzTi
  
Follow on Facebook
Better By Bike 2 days ago This is the last week you can enter our 'I Bike It, I Like It' competition! Take our quick survey to be in with a chance of winning a £250 VOUCHER! Enter here: bit.ly/2OFMumH Photo
Better By Bike 2 days ago This is the last week you can enter our 'I Bike It, I Like It' competition! Take our quick survey to be in with a chance of winning a £250 VOUCHER! Enter here: bit.ly/2OFMumH Photo
Sign up for latest news, events & info
By clicking on Sign up, you agree to our privacy policy


Your email

Join us on social media
Facebook
 
Twitter
 
Instagram
 
Youtube
Business Support Resources Projects Terms & conditions Accessibility Privacy Copyright Contact us
Official cycling website for Bristol, Bath & NE Somerset, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire
Discover great maps and rides suitable for all levels of abilities, bike shops, loan bikes schemes, infrastructure projects, local cycling news, and upcoming events.

Privacy & Cookies Policy