One of the most effective ways of reducing single-occupancy car use, easing the burden on our roads and cutting back on your travel costs is to join a car-share arrangement.

Thousands of people use the two car-share websites in Aberdeen City and Shire to get about - saving money and reducing congestion. More and more companies are providing parking bays for priority use by car-sharers.

You don't even need a car to join. Car-sharing can:
●	Reduce your travel costs,
●	Reduce congestion on the roads
●	Reduce your carbon footprint
●	Help you meet new people
For further information visit:

www.nestranscarshare.com

www.carshareaberdeenshire.com

There is also the national scheme www.liftshare.com which includes information on car-sharing for major sporting and leisure events as well as a CO2 calculator.

Drive Better

Driving can be made easier on your pocket and much better for the environment by driving in a safe and eco-friendly way. Just a small alteration to your driving style can make a big difference to the fuel you use and the number of components you need to replace.

Go to www.energysavingtrust.org.uk/scotland and take their test. You could win prizes and it will help you become a more economical and safer driver.

Alternatively, taxis are a convenient door-to-door transport system for getting you about at any time of day or night.

Sharing will reduce the cost and most firms can provide vehicles suitable for people with mobility problems so it's easier than ever to Getabout

www.localtaxifinder.co.uk

www.findataxi.info

www.cabcaller.co.uk

www.taxiregister.com

www.taxisdirectory.com


Powered Two Wheelers

Scooters, motorcycles and mopeds are a quick way to get about as well as being easy to park and cheap to run. They are a very efficient user of road space and the Getabout partners support motorcycling with secure parking and lockers.

For information on motorcycling visit:

www.bmf.co.uk/Region_1/home/index.php

www.scotland.mag-uk.org

Park and Ride Leaflet

